country normandy located.	In what what country is Normandy located?.
norman normandy.	were the Normans in Normandy? ? .
country norse originate.	From which countries did the Norse originate?.
norse leader.	Who was the Norse leader?.
century norman first gain separate identity.	What century did the Normans first gain their separate identity?.
gave name normandy 1000's 1100's.	Who gave their name to Normandy in the 1000's and 1100's.
france region.	What is France a region of?.
king charles iii swear fealty.	Who did King Charles III swear fealty to?.
frankish identity emerge.	When did the Frankish identity emerge?.
duke battle hastings.	Who was the duke in the battle of Hastings?.
ruled duchy normandy.	Who ruled the duchy of Normandy.
religion norman.	What religion were the Normans.
type major impact norman dynasty modern europe.	What type of major impact did the Norman dynasty have on modern Europe?.
famed christian spirit.	Who was famed for their Christian spirit?.
assimilted roman language.	Who assimilted the Roman language?.
ruled country normandy.	Who ruled the country of Normandy?.
principality william conquerer found.	What principality did William the conquerer found?.
original meaning word norman.	What is the original meaning of the word Norman?.
latin version word norman first recorded.	When was the Latin version of the word Norman first recorded?.
name come english word normans/normanz.	What name comes from the English words Normans/Normanz?.
french version word norman first recorded.	When was the French version of the word Norman first recorded?.
duchy normandy founded.	When was the Duchy of Normandy founded?.
rollo sign treaty saint-clair-sur-epte.	Who did Rollo sign the treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte with?.
river originally bounded duchy.	What river originally bounded the Duchy.
nors encampment ivolve destructive incursion.	when did Nors encampments ivolve into destructive incursions?.
treaty established 9th century.	What treaty was established in the 9th century?.
established treaty king charles third france.	Who established a treaty with King Charles the third of France?.
french promise protect rollo men.	What did the French promises to protect Rollo and his men from?.
upon arriving gave original viking settler common identity.	Who upon arriving gave the original viking settlers a common identity?.
rollo begin arrive normandy.	When did Rollo begin to arrive in Normandy?.
viking group conquered rollo.	What Viking groups were conquered by Rollo?.
norman religion.	What was the Norman religion?.
part france norman located.	What part of France were the Normans located?.
replace norse religion.	What was replace with the Norse religion?.
maternal old norse tradition merge.	What did maternal Old Norse traditions merge with?.
language replaced gallo-romance language.	What language replaced the Gallo-Romance language?.
one norman's major export.	What was one of the Norman's major exports?.
adopted fuedel doctrine norman.	Who adopted the fuedel doctrines of the Normans?.
one norman's major import.	What was one of the Norman's major imports?.
who's arristocracy eventually served avid crusader.	Who's arristocracy eventually served as avid Crusaders?.
normans' main enemy italy, byzantine empire armenia.	Who was the Normans' main enemy in Italy, the Byzantine Empire and Armenia?.
entered italy soon byzantine empire.	Who entered Italy soon after the Byzantine Empire?.
norman fight italy.	Who did the Normans fight in Italy?.
norman encourage come south.	Who did the Normans encourage to come to the south?.
campaign vargian lombard fight.	During what campaign did the Vargian and Lombard fight?.
herve serve byzantine general.	When did Herve serve as a Byzantine general?.
robert crispin go turk.	When did Robert Crispin go up against the Turks?.
ruined roussel de bailleul's plan independent state.	Who ruined Roussel de Bailleul's plans for an independent state?.
first byzantine mercenary serve norman.	Who was the first Byzantine mercenary to serve with the Normans?.
herve serve norman general.	When did Herve serve as a Norman general?.
ruined alexius komnenos plan independent state.	Who ruined Alexius Komnenos plans for an independent state?.
herve go turk.	When did Herve go up against the Turks?.
name norman castle.	What was the name of the Norman castle?.
leader frank entered euphrates valley.	Who was the leader when the Franks entered the Euphrates valley?.
norman team anatolia.	Who did the Normans team up with in Anatolia?.
joined norman force destruction armenian.	Who joined Norman forces in the destruction of the Armenians?.
turk take service.	Who did the Turks take up service with?.
frank led norman force.	What Frank led Norman forces?.
oursel lead frank.	Where did Oursel lead the Franks?.
origin raouliii family.	What were the origins of the Raouliii family?.
several norman mercenary familes originate.	Where were several Norman mercenary familes originate from?.
norman serve 10th century.	Who did the Normans serve under in the 10th century?.
expedition george maniaces lead 10th century.	What expedition did George Maniaces lead in the 10th century?.
name count apulia.	What was the name of the count of Apulia .
dyrrachium fall norman.	When did Dyrrachium  fall to the Normans?.
many men robert's army.	How many men were in Robert's army?.
ultimatly drove byzantine europe.	Who ultimatly drove the Byzantines out of Europe?.
pope opposed robert campaign.	What pope opposed Roberts campaign?.
fell norman 10th century.	What fell to the Normans in the 10th century?.
many men robert army face.	How many men did Roberts army face?.
norman byzantine sign peace treaty.	Where did the Normans and Byzantines sign the peace treaty?.
robert's son.	Who was Robert's son?.
river petrela located.	What river was Petrela located by?.
norman besiege 11th century.	Who did the Normans besiege in the 11th century?.
robert lead agains dyrrachium 1107.	Who did Robert lead agains Dyrrachium in 1107?.
bohemond's son.	Who was Bohemond's son?.
norman attack dyrrachium.	When did the Normans attack Dyrrachium?.
naval base called.	What was the naval base called?.
dyrrachium located.	Where was Dyrrachium located?.
attacked dyrrachium 11th century.	Who attacked Dyrrachium in the 11th century?.
betrayed norman.	Who betrayed the Normans?.
naval base fell norman.	What naval base fell to the Normans?.
emma marry.	Who did Emma Marry?.
emma's brother.	Who was Emma's brother?.
ethelred flee.	To where did Ethelred flee?.
kicked ethelred.	Who kicked Ethelred out?.
married cnut great.	Who married Cnut the Great?.
richard ii flee normandy.	When did Richard II flee to Normandy?.
who's major port controlled english.	Who's major ports were controlled by the English?.
edward confessor's half-brother.	Who was Edward the Confessor's half-brother?.
edward return.	When did Edward return?.
edward make archbishop canterbury.	Who did Edward make archbishop of Canterbury?.
edward confessor's son return father refuge.	When did Edward the Confessor's son return from his fathers refuge?.
kind force harthacnut establish.	What kind of force did Harthacnut establish?.
made robert jumieges earl hereford.	Who made Robert of Jumieges earl of Hereford?.
harold ii die.	Where did Harold II die?.
killed harold ii.	Who killed Harold II? .
battle hastings.	When was the Battle of Hastings?.
ruling class ahead norman.	Who was the ruling class ahead of the Normans?.
king harold ii conquer england.	When did King Harold II conquer England?.
battle took place 10th century.	What battle took place in the 10th century?.
replaced norman ruling class.	Who replaced the Normans as the ruling class?.
considered land continent important holding.	Who considered their land on the continent their most important holding?.
anglo-norman language's final form.	What was the Anglo-Norman language's final form?.
identified french hundred year war.	Who identified themselves as French during the Hundred Years War?.
absorbed anglo-norman language.	What was absorbed into the Anglo-Norman language?.
made fun latin language.	Who made fun of the Latin language?.
year norman's invade bannow bay.	In what year did the Norman's invade at Bannow Bay?.
country norman invade 1169.	What country did the Normans invade in 1169?.
culture norman combine ireland.	What culture did the Normans combine with in Ireland?.
norman invade 11th century.	Where did the Normans invade in the 11th century?.
irish culture profound effect.	Who did the Irish culture have a profound effect on?.
castle built irish.	What castles were built by the Irish?.
margaret's brother.	Who was Margaret's brother?.
margaret's husband.	Who was Margaret's husband?.
scotland invaded william.	When was Scotland invaded by William?.
hostage.	Who was the hostage?.
edgar marry.	Who did Edgar marry?.
invaded scotland 10th century.	Who invaded Scotland in the 10th century?.
scotish king take hostage.	Who did the Scotish king take hostage?.
alexander marry.	Who did Alexander I marry?.
culture's arrival scotland know "davidian revolution".	What culture's arrival in Scotland is know as the "Davidian Revolution"?.
king david scotland marry.	Who did King David I of Scotland Marry?.
sybilla normandy introduce scotland.	What did Sybilla of Normandy introduce to Scotland?.
ralph earl.	Where was Ralph earl of?.
ralph charge war.	Who was Ralph in charge of being at war with?.
made ralph earl.	Who made Ralph earl?.
came contact wale conquest england.	Who came into contact with Wales after the conquest of England?.
made edward confessor earl.	Who made Edward the Confessor Earl?.
country control norman baron.	What country was under the control of Norman barons?.
came williams dominace conquest.	What came under Williams dominace before the conquest?.
welsh lord william conquer.	What Welsh lords did William conquer?.
year roger de tosny fail accomplish set.	What year did Roger de Tosny fail to accomplish what he set out to do?.
charge papal army war barbastro.	Who was in charge of the papal army in the War of Barbastro?.
norman carve principality first crusade.	Where did the Normans carve out a principality before the First Crusade?.
norman take part 10th century.	What did the Normans take part in in the 10th century?.
carved state moorish land.	Who carved out a state for himself from Moorish lands?.
war occured 1oth century.	What war occured in the 1oth century?.
siege antioch take place.	When did the Siege of Antioch take place?.
name bohemond's nephew.	What was the name of Bohemond's nephew?.
major conquest tancred play roll.	What major conquest did Tancred play a roll in?.
tancred lay siege antioch.	When did Tancred lay siege to Antioch?.
name tancred's nephew.	What was the name of Tancred's nephew?.
long western europe control cyprus.	How long did Western Europe control Cyprus?.
defeated anglo-norman force third crusade.	Who defeated Anglo-Norman forces during the third Crusade?.
dominated western europe 380 year.	Who dominated Western Europe for 380 years?.
ruined richard's plan reach acre.	What ruined Richard's plans to reach Acre?.
richard's fiancee.	Who was Richard's fiancee?.
year storm hit richard's fleet.	What year did the storm hit Richard's fleet?.
ruled cyprus 1191.	Who ruled Cyprus in 1191?.
left messina 11th century.	Who left Messina in the 11th century?.
year richards fleet avoid storm.	What year did Richards fleet avoid a storm?.
ruled cyprus 11th century.	Who ruled Cyprus in the 11th century?.
guy's rival.	Who was Guy's Rival?.
isaac's chain made.	What were Isaac's chains made out of?.
led richard's troop cyprus conquered.	Who led Richard's troops when Cyprus was conquered?.
who's chain made copper.	Who's chains were made out of copper?.
led issacs troop cyprus.	Who led Issacs troops to Cyprus?.
offered issac daughter.	Who offered Issac his daughter?.
continent canarian island coast.	What continent are the Canarian Islands off the coast of?.
conquered canary island 14th century.	Who conquered the Canary Island in the 14th century?.
island coast asia.	What Islands are of the coast of Asia?.
became king canary island.	Who became the King of the Canary Islands?.
bought right.	Who bought the rights?.
sold right.	Who sold the rights?.
title henry ii take canary island.	What title did Henry II take in the Canary Island?.
sold right island 14th century.	Who sold the rights to the island in the 14th century?.
jersey guernsey.	Where are Jersey and Guernsey.
many customaries norman customary law.	How many customaries does Norman customary law have?.
norman law wasdeveloped 1000 1300.	What Norman law wasdeveloped between 1000 and 1300?.
law 3 customeries.	What law has 3 customeries?.
authored 12th century.	What was authored in the 12th century?.
norman architecture idiom.	What is the Norman architecture idiom?.
kind arch norman architecture.	What kind of arches does Norman architecture have?.
type arch norman invent.	What type of arch did the Normans invent?.
architecture type came norman england.	What architecture type came after Norman in England?.
architecture type came norman england.	What architecture type came before Norman in England?.
place norman arab architectural style.	What place had the Norman Arab architectural style?.
precedes period anglo-saxon architecture.	What precedes the period of Anglo-Saxon architecture?.
architecture type came early gothic.	What architecture type came after Early Gothic?.
incorperated islamic, lombard, byzantine building technique england.	Who incorperated Islamic, LOmbard, and Byzantine building techniques in England?.
church reform begin.	When did the church reform begin?.
used church unify.	Who used the church to unify themselves?.
kind art norman rich tradition.	What kind of art did the Normans have a rich tradition of?.
began program church reform 1100s.	Who began a program of church reform in the 1100s.
divided church.	Who was divided by the church?.
experienced aa golden age 1100s 1200s.	Who experienced aa golden age in the 1100s and 1200s.
french war religion.	When were the French wars of religion?.
war france fight 1600s.	What wars did France fight in the 1600s?.
revolution fought 1899's.	What revolution was fought in the 1899's?.
kind needlework used creation bayeux tapestry.	What kind of needlework was used in the creation of the Bayeux Tapestry?.
norman art's well known piece.	What is Norman art's most well known piece?.
commissioned tapestry.	Who commissioned the Tapestry?.
oldest work norman art.	What is the oldest work of Norman art?.
commissioned danish viking create bayeux tapestry.	Who commissioned Danish vikings to create the Bayeux Tapestry?.
important type norman art preserved church.	What is the most important type of Norman art preserved in churches?.
british art survived normandy.	How has British art survived in Normandy?.
common form norman art church.	What is the most common form of Norman art in churches?.
centre ivorywork 1100s.	What was a centre of ivorywork in the 1100s?.
century important classical music development occur normandy.	In what century did important classical music developments occur in Normandy?.
two abbot fécamp abbey.	Who were the two abbots at Fécamp Abbey?.
developed normandy 1100s.	What developed in Normandy during the 1100s?.
fecamp abby center.	What was Fecamp Abby the center of?.
monk flee.	Where did the monks flee to?.
monastery saint-evroul monk establish italy.	What monastery did the Saint-Evroul monks establish in Italy?.
patronized monk italy.	Who patronized the monks in Italy? .
tradition saint-evroul monk known.	What tradition were the Saint-Evroul monks known for?.
fled southern italy.	Who fled from southern Italy?.
branch theoretical computer science deal broadly classifying computational problem difficulty class relationship.	What branch of theoretical computer science deals with broadly classifying computational problems by difficulty and class of relationship?.
main attribute computational problem classified utilizing computational complexity theory.	By what main attribute are computational problems classified utilizing computational complexity theory? .
term task generally lends solved computer.	What is the term for a task that generally lends itself to being solved by a computer?.
computational complexity principle.	What is computational complexity principle?.
branch theoretical computer class deal broadly classifying computational problem difficulty class relationship.	What branch of theoretical computer class deals with broadly classifying computational problems by difficulty and class of relationship?.
understood task principle amendable solved computer.	What is understood to be a task that is in principle not amendable to being solved by a computer?.
cannot solved mechanical application mathematical step.	 What cannot be solved by mechanical application of mathematical steps?.
manual application mathematical step.	What is a manual application of mathematical steps?.
measure computational problem broadly defines inherent difficulty solution.	What measure of a computational problem broadly defines the inherent difficulty of the solution?.
method used intuitively ass quantify amount resource required solve computational problem.	What method is used to intuitively assess or quantify the amount of resources required to solve a computational problem?.
two basic primary resource used guage complexity.	What are two basic primary resources used to guage complexity?.
unit measured determine circuit complexity.	What unit is measured to determine circuit complexity?.
practical role defining complexity problem play everyday computing.	What practical role does defining the complexity of problems play in everyday computing?.
measure computational problem broadly defines inherent simplicity solution.	What measure of computational problem broadly defines the inherent simplicity of the solution?.
method used intuitively ass quantify amount resource required solve computational problem.	What method is not used to intuitively assess or quantify the amount of resources required to solve a computational problem??.
three basic primary resource used gauge complexity.	What are three basic primary resources used to gauge complexity?.
unit measured determine circuit simplicity.	What unit is measured to determine circuit simplicity?.
number used perpendicular computing.	What number is used in perpendicular computing?.
two field theoretical computer science closely mirror computational complexity theory.	What two fields of theoretical computer science closely mirror computational complexity theory?.
field computer science analyzes resource requirement specific algorithm isolated unto within given problem.	What field of computer science analyzes the resource requirements of a specific algorithm isolated unto itself within a given problem?.
field computer science analyzes possible algorithm aggregate determine resource requirement needed solve given problem.	What field of computer science analyzes all possible algorithms in aggregate to determine the resource requirements needed to solve to a given problem?  .
field computer science primarily concerned determining likelihood whether problem ultimately solved using algorithm.	What field of computer science is primarily concerned with determining the likelihood of whether or not a problem can ultimately be solved using algorithms?.
two field theoretical computer science closely mirror computational simplicity theory.	What are two fields of theoretical computer science that closely mirror computational simplicity theory?.
key distinction analysis algorithm computational complexity theory.	What is not the key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory?.
process analyzing amount resource needed particular algorithm solve hypothesis.	What is the process of analyzing the amount of resources needed by a particular algorithm to solve a hypothesis?.
process asks specific question possible algorithm could used solve problem.	What is the process that asks a more specific question about all possible algorithms that could not be used to solve the same problem?.
process classifies problem cannot solved approximately unlimited resource.	What process classifies problems that can and cannot be solved with approximately unlimited resources?.
name given input string computational problem.	What is the name given to the input string of a computational problem?.
computational complexity theory, term given describe baseline abstract question needing solved.	In computational complexity theory, what is the term given to describe the baseline abstract question needing to be solved? .
problem instance typically characterized abstract concrete.	Is a problem instance typically characterized as abstract or concrete?.
another name given measure input associated problem.	What is another name for any given measure of input associated with a problem?.
general term used describe output given input problem instance.	What is the general term used to describe the output to any given input in a problem instance?.
viewed limited collection instance together solution every instance.	What can be viewed as a limited collection of instances together with a solution for every instance?.
name given input string computational solution.	What is the name given to the input string of a computational solution?.
term refers concrete question solved.	What term refers to the concrete question to be solved?.
output corresponding given question.	What is the output corresponding to the given question?.
particular measure input associated theory.	What is a particular measure input associated with the a theory?.
many kilometer traveling salesman problem seek classify route 15 largest city germany.	By how many kilometers does the traveling salesman problem seek to classify a route between the 15 largest cities in Germany?.
one example instance quantitative answer traveling salesman problem fails answer.	What is one example of an instance that the quantitative answer to the traveling salesman problem fails to answer?.
computational complexity theory specifically seek answer.	What does computational complexity theory most specifically seek to answer? .
many mile traveling salesman problem seek classify route 15 smallest city germany.	How many miles does the traveling salesman problem seek to classify a route between the 15 smallest cities in Germany?.
qualitative answer particular problem instance.	What is the qualitative answer to this particular problem instance?.
one example instance qualitative answer traveling salesman fails answer.	What is one example of an instance that the qualitative answer to the traveling salesman fails to answer?.
computational simplicity theory specifically seek answer.	What does computational simplicity theory most specifically seek to answer?.
computational problem, described string alphabet.	In a computational problem, what can be described as a string over an alphabet?.
name alphabet commonly used problem instance.	What is the name of the alphabet is most commonly used in a problem instance?.
another term string problem instance.	What is another term for the string of a problem instance?.
encoding mathematical objects, way integer commonly expressed.	In the encoding of mathematical objects, what is the way in which integers are commonly expressed?.
one way graph encoded.	What is one way in which graphs can be encoded? .
string greek number considering computational problem.	What is a string over a Greek number when considering a computational problem?.
name alphabet rarely used problem instance.	What is the name of the alphabet that is rarely used in a problem instance?.
another term string problem question.	What is another term for the the string of a problem question?.
represented non-binary notation encoding mathematical object.	What is represented by non-binary notation in the encoding of mathematical objects?.
graph encoded indirectly.	How can graphs be encoded indirectly?.
kind problem one main topic studied computational complexity theory.	What kind of problems are one of the main topics studied in computational complexity theory?.
two simple word response decision problem.	What are the two simple word responses to a decision problem?.
two integer response decision problem.	What are the two integer responses to a decision problem?.
output member language decision problem.	What will the output be for a member of the language of a decision problem?.
answer denotes algorithm accepted input string.	What answer denotes that an algorithm has accepted an input string?.
kind solution one central object study computational complexity theory.	What kind of solutions are one of the central objects of study in computational complexity theory?.
typical type computational problem whose answer either yer.	What is a typical type of computational problem whose answer is either yer or no?.
viewed informal language language instance whose input yes.	What can be viewed as an informal language where the language instances whose input is yes?.
three integer response decision problem.	What are the three integer responses to a decision problem?.
answer denotes solution accepted input string.	What answer denotes that a solution has accepted an input string?.
kind graph example input used decision problem.	What kind of graph is an example of an input used in a decision problem?.
term set connected graph related decision problem.	What is the term for the set of all connected graphs related to this decision problem?.
encoding decision need made order determine exact definition formal language.	What encoding decision needs to be made in order to determine an exact definition of the formal language?.
type graph example output used decision problem.	What type of graph is an example of an output used in a decision problem?.
term set unconnected graph related decision problem.	What is the term for the set of all unconnected graphs related to this decision problem?.
encoding decision need made order determine inaccurate definition formal language.	What encoding decision needs to be made in order to determine an inaccurate definition of the formal language? .
one obtain indefinite definition language.	How does one obtain an indefinite definition of this language?.
function problem example.	A function problem is an example of what?.
many output expected input function problem.	How many outputs are expected for each input in a function problem?.
traveling salesman problem example type problem.	The traveling salesman problem is an example of what type of problem?.
addition traveling salesman problem, another example function problem.	In addition to the traveling salesman problem, what is another example of a function problem?.
output functional problem typically characterized simple complex answer.	Is the output of a functional problem typically characterized by a simple or complex answer?.
computational solution single input expected every input.	What is a computational solution where a single input is expected for every input?.
expected computational problem offer multiple output expected every input.	What is expected where a computational problems offers multiple outputs are expected for every input?.
function solution example.	What is a function solution an example of?.
irrelevant example function problem>.	What are other irrelevant examples of a function problem>.
output functional solution typically characterized simple complex answer.	Is the output of a functional solution typically characterized by a simple or complex answer?.
function problem typically restated.	How can function problems typically be restated?.
two integer multiplied output value, expression set called.	If two integers are multiplied and output a value, what is this expression set called?.
restated decision problem.	What can not be restated as decision problems?.
expression set called three integer multiplied.	What is the expression set called where three integers are multiplied?.
corresponds solving problem multiplying three numbers/.	What corresponds to solving the problem of multiplying three numbers/.
commonly used measurement used determine complexity computational problem.	What is a commonly used measurement used to determine the complexity of a computational problem?.
one variable running time may contingent.	What is one variable on which the running time may be contingent?.
time needed obtain solution problem calculated.	How is the time needed to obtain the solution to a problem calculated?.
unit size input measured.	In what unit is the size of the input measured?.
complexity theory seek define relationship scale algorithm respect variable.	Complexity theory seeks to define the relationship between the scale of algorithms with respect to what other variable?.
one measure simplicity computational problem.	How does one measure the simplicity of a computational problem?.
one variable running time contingent.	What is one variable which the running of time be not be contingent?.
time needed obtain question problem calculated.	How is the time needed to obtain the question to a problem calculated?.
interested algorithm scale decrease input size.	What is  interested in how algorithms scale with a decrease in the input size?.
time required solve problem calculated.	How is time not required to solve a problem calculated?.
whose thesis state solution problem solvable reasonable resource assuming allows polynomial time algorithm.	Whose thesis states that the solution to a problem is solvable with reasonable resources assuming it allows for a polynomial time algorithm?.
input size equal n, respectively assumed function n.	If input size is is equal to n, what can respectively be assumed is the function of n?.
term corresponds maximum measurement time across function n.	What term corresponds to the maximum measurement of time across all functions of n? .
worst-case time complexity written expression.	How is worst-case time complexity written as an expression?.
assuming represents polynomial t(n), term given corresponding algorithm.	Assuming that T represents a polynomial in T(n), what is the term given to the corresponding algorithm?.
time taken expressed function x.	How is time taken expressed as a function of x?.
whose hypothesis state solution problem solvable reasonable resource assuming allows monoinomial time algorithm.	Whose hypothesis states the the solution to a problem is solvable with reasonable resources assuming it allows for monoinomial time algorithm?.
term corresponds minimum measurement time across function n.	What term corresponds to the minimum measurement of the time across all functions of n?.
best-case time complexity written expression.	How is best-case time complexity written as an expression?.
term given corresponding algorithm assuming represents mononominal t(n).	What is the term given to the corresponding algorithm assuming that T represents a mononominal in T(n)?.
term mathematical model theoretically represents general computing machine.	What is the term for a mathematical model that theoretically represents a general computing machine?.
generally assumed turing machine solve anything capable also solved using.	It is generally assumed that a Turing machine can solve anything capable of also being solved using what?.
commonplace model utilized complexity theory.	What is the most commonplace model utilized in complexity theory?.
turing machine handle strip tape.	What does a Turing machine handle on a strip of tape?.
scientific model general computing machine.	What a scientific model of a general computing machine?.
scientific device manipulates symbol contained strip tape.	What is a scientific device that manipulates symbols contained on a strip of tape?.
intended practical computing technology.	What are intended as a practical computing technology?.
scientific experiment solve problem algorithm.	What is a scientific experiment that can solve a problem by algorithms?.
generally considered basic iteration turing machine.	What is generally considered to be the most basic iteration of a Turing machine?.
fixed set factor determine action deterministic turing machine.	What fixed set of factors determine the actions of a deterministic Turing machine.
term used identify deterministic turing machine additional random bit.	What is the term used to identify a deterministic Turing machine that has additional random bits?.
type turing machine capable multiple action extends variety computational path.	What type of Turing machine is capable of multiple actions and extends into a variety of computational paths?.
term given algorithm utilize random bit.	What is the term given to algorithms that utilize random bits?.
us flexible set rule determine future action.	What uses a flexible set of rules to determine its future actions?.
deterministic turing machine extra supply random ribbon.	What is a deterministic Turing machine with an extra supply of random ribbons?.
often help algorithm solve problem efficiently.	What does not often help algorithms solve problems more efficiently?.
machine allows machine multiple possible past action given state.	Which machine allows the machine to have multiple possible past actions from a given state?.
one way one view non-determinism.	How is one way that one should not view non-determinism?.
turing machine commonly employed define.	Turing machines are commonly employed to define what? .
two factor directly effect powerful turing machine may may.	What are two factors that directly effect how powerful a Turing machine may or may not be?.
determination complexity classes, two example type turing machine.	In the determination of complexity classes, what are two examples of types of Turing machines?.
many type turing machine used.	What are many types of Turing machines not used for?.
three factor directly effect powerful turing machine may may.	What are three factors that directly effect how powerful a Turing machine may or may not be?.
machine equally powerful principle.	What machines are not equally powerful in principle?.
may powerful others resource time space considered.	What may not be more powerful than others when the resources of time or space of considered?.
example machine model deviate generally accepted multi-tape turing machine.	What is an example of a machine model that deviates from a generally accepted multi-tape Turing machine?.
considering turing machine alternate variables, measurement left unaffected conversion machine model.	In considering Turing machines and alternate variables, what measurement left unaffected by conversion between machine models? .
two resource commonly consumed alternate model typically known vary.	What two resources commonly consumed by alternate models are typically known to vary?.
commonality alternate machine models, random access machines, share turing machine.	What commonality do alternate machine models, such as random access machines, share with Turing machines?.
example machine model deviate generally accepted multi-tape turing machine.	What is not an example of a machine model that deviates from a generally accepted multi-tape Turing machine?.
measurement affected conversion machine model.	What measurement is affected by conversion between machine models?.
two resource uncommonly consumed alternate model typically known vary.	What two resources are uncommonly consumed by alternate models and are typically known to vary?.
model common.	What do all these models not have in common?.
type turing machine characterized checking multiple possibility time.	What type of Turing machine can be characterized by checking multiple possibilities at the same time?.
often affect facilitates ease analysis computational problem.	What often affects or facilitates ease of analysis in computational problems?.
non-deterministic turing machine ability capture facet useful analysis.	A non-deterministic Turing machine has the ability to capture what facet of useful analysis?.
critical resource analysis computational problem associated non-deterministic turing machine.	What is the most critical resource in the analysis of computational problems associated with non-deterministic Turing machines?.
harder analyze term unusual resource.	What is harder to analyze in terms of more unusual resources?.
type machine computational model allowed branch check many different possibility.	What type of machine is a computational model that is not allowed to branch out to check many different possibilities at once?.
lot physically want compute algorithm.	What has a lot to do with how we physically want to compute algorithms?.
machine's branching exactly capture many mathematical model want analyze.	What machine's branching does not exactly capture many of the mathematical models we want to analyze?.
least critical resource analysis computational problem associated non-deterministic turing machine.	What is the least critical resource in the analysis of computational problems associated with non-deterministic Turing machines?.
time required output answer deterministic turing machine expressed.	The time required to output an answer on a deterministic Turing machine is expressed as what?.
complexity theory classifies problem based primary attribute.	Complexity theory classifies problems based on what primary attribute?.
expression used identify given series problem capable solved within time deterministic turing machine.	What is the expression used to identify any given series of problems capable of being solved within time on a deterministic Turing machine?.
critical resource measured assessing determination turing machine's ability solve given set problem.	What is the most critical resource measured to in assessing the determination of a Turing machine's ability to solve any given set of problems?.
used precise definition mean solve problem using given amount time space.	What is not used for a precise definition of what it means to solve a problem using a given amount of time and space?.
turing machine said operate.	How is Turing machine M said not to operate?.
expression used identify given series solution capable solved within time deterministic turing machine.	What is the expression used to identify any given series of solutions capable of being solved within time on a deterministic Turing machine?.
least critical resource measured assessing determination turing machine's ability solve given set problem.	What is the least critical resource measured in assessing the determination of a Turing machine's ability to solve any given set of problems?.
decision problem b solved time x(f).	How can decision problem B be solved in time x(f)?.
time space example type resource.	Time and space are both examples of what type of resource?.
complexity resource also described type resource.	A complexity resource can also be described as what other type of resource?.
typically used broadly define complexity measure.	What is typically used to broadly define complexity measures?.
communication complexity example type measure.	Communication complexity is an example of what type of measure?.
decision tree example type measure.	Decision tree is an example of what type of measure?.
made space requirement.	What can not be made for space requirements?.
least well known complexity resource.	What are the least well known complexity resources?.
complexity measure generally defined.	How are complexity measures generally not defined?.
complexity measure used complexity theory.	What are other complexity measures not used in complexity theory?.
type measure communication complexity example.	What type of measure is communication complexity not an example of?.
three primary expression used represent case complexity.	What are the three primary expressions used to represent case complexity?.
case complexity likelihood provide variable probability general measure.	Case complexity likelihoods provide variable probabilities of what general measure? .
one common example critical complexity measure.	What is one common example of a critical complexity measure?.
case complexity provide three likelihood differing variable remains size.	Case complexities provide three likelihoods of what differing variable that remains the same size? .
three secondary expression used represent case complexity.	What are the three secondary expressions used to represent case complexity? .
three different way used measure space complexity.	What three different ways are used to measure space complexity?.
one common example critical complexity measure.	What is one not common example of a critical complexity measure?.
differing variable remains size providing four likelihood case complexity.	What differing variable remains the same size when providing the four likelihoods of case complexities?.
provides solution list integer provided input ned sorted.	What provides a solution to a list of integers provided as input that ned to be sorted?.
extensive time required sort integers, represents case complexity.	When extensive time is required to sort integers, this represents what case complexity?.
expression used denote worst case complexity expressed time taken.	What is the expression used to denote a worst case complexity as expressed by time taken?.
solve problem sorting list integer given input.	What does not solve the problem of sorting a list of integers that is given as the input?.
deterministic parting algorithm quicksort.	What does the deterministic parting algorithm quicksort do?.
case complexity represented limited time required sort integer.	What case complexity is represented when limited time is required to sort integers?.
expression used denote worst case complexity expressed time taken.	What is the expression not used to denote worst case complexity as expressed by time taken?.
case complexity represented pivoting divide list thirds, also needing o(n log n) time.	What case complexity is represented when each pivoting divides the list in thirds, also needing O(n log n) time?.
classification resource contingent determining upper lower bound minimum time required.	Classification of resources is contingent on determining the upper and lower bounds of minimum time required by what?  .
analysis specific algorithm typically assigned field computational science.	The analysis of a specific algorithm is typically assigned to what field of computational science?.
bound time difficult establish.	Which bound of time is more difficult to establish?.
specific algorithm demonstrating t(n) represents measure time complexity.	A specific algorithm demonstrating T(n) represents what measure of time complexity?.
colloquial phrase used convey continuum algorithm unlimited availability irrespective time.	What is the colloquial phrase used to convey the continuum of algorithms with unlimited availability irrespective of time? .
one note classify computation time (or similar resources).	How does one note classify the computation time (or similar resources)?.
usually taken best case complexity, unless specified otherwise.	What is usually taken as the best case complexity, unless specified otherwise?.
fall field analysis algorithms>.	What does not fall under the field of analysis of algorithms>.
one need show particular algorithm running time mon t(no.	When does one not need to show only that there is a particular algorithm running time at mons T(nO?.
easy proving lower bound.	What is easy about proving lower bounds?.
expression generally used convey upper lower bound.	What expression is generally used to convey upper or lower bounds?.
big notation hide.	What does a big O notation hide?.
would one write t(n) = 7n2 + 15n + 40 big notation.	How would one write T(n) = 7n2 + 15n + 40 in big O notation? .
big notation provides autonomy upper lower bound relationship.	Big O notation provides autonomy to upper and lower bounds with relationship to what? .
usually stated using big notation.	What is usually not stated using the big O notation?.
hide constant factor smaller term.	What does not hide constant factors or smaller terms?.
make bound dependent specific detail computational model.	What makes the bounds dependent of the specific details of the computational model?.
would one abbreviate t(n)=8n2 + 16n = 40 big notatation.	How would one abbreviate T(n)=8n2 + 16n = 40 in big O notatation?.
complicated definition prevent classification framework.	What has complicated definitions that prevent classification into a framework?.
complexity class generally classified.	Complexity classes are generally classified into what?.
difficulty establishing framework complexity class caused variable.	Difficulty in establishing a framework for complexity classes can be caused by what variable?.
fit framework complexity class.	What fits the framework of complexity classes?.
uncomplicated definition prevent classification framework.	What has uncomplicated definitions that prevent classification into a framework?.
complexity class generally classified.	What are complexity classes generally not classified into?.
variable easy establish framework complexity class.	What variable is easy to establish in a framework for complexity classes?.
concrete bounding computation time frequently produce complexity class contingent upon.	Concrete bounding of computation time frequently produces complexity classes contingent upon what?.
multi-tape turing machine requires type time solution.	A multi-tape Turing machine requires what type of time for a solution?.
language solved quadratic time implies use type turing machine.	A language solved in quadratic time implies the use of what type of Turing machine?.
thesis specifies polynomial relationship exists within time complexity computational model.	What thesis specifies that a polynomial relationship exists within time complexities in a computational model? .
decision problem capable solved deterministic turing machine maintaining adherence polynomial time belong class.	Decision problems capable of being solved by a deterministic Turing machine while maintaining adherence to polynomial time belong to what class?.
often yield complexity class depend chosen machine model.	What does not often yield complexity classes that depend on the chosen machine model?.
frequently produce complexity class concrete bounding computation time.	What does not frequently produce complexity classes that have concrete bounding of computation time?.
solved linear time multi-tape turing machine.	What can not be solved in linear time on multi-tape Turing machine?.
binary string.	What is not a binary string?.
thesis specifies trinomial relationship exists within time complexity computational model.	What thesis specifies that a trinomial relationship exists within time complexities in a computational model?.
two example measurement bound within algorithm establish complexity class.	What are two examples of measurements are bound within algorithms to establish complexity classes?.
function used algorithm define measurement like time space.	What function is used by algorithms to define measurements like time or space?.
bounding time space similar measurement often used algorithm define.	Bounding of time and space or similar measurements is often used by algorithms to define what?.
cannot defined bounding time space used algorithm.	What cannot be defined by bounding the time or space used the the algorithm?.
three example measurement bound within algorithm establish complexity class.	What are three examples of measurement that are bound within algorithms to establish complexity classes?.
function used algorithm define measurement like time number.	What function is used by algorithms to define measurements like time and numbers?.
often used algorithm measure bounding space atmosphere measurement.	What is often used by algorithms to measure bounding of space and atmosphere measurements?.
three example complexity class associated definition established probabilistic turing machine.	What are three examples of complexity classes associated with definitions established by probabilistic Turing machines?.
ac nc complexity class typically associated type circuit.	AC and NC are complexity classes typically associated with what type of circuit?.
bqp qma example complexity class commonly associated type turing machine.	BQP and QMA are examples of complexity classes most commonly associated with what type of Turing machine?.
expression used represent complexity class counting problem.	What is the expression used to represent a complexity class of counting problems?.
ip commonly defined type proof system.	IP and AM are most commonly defined by what type of proof system?.
four important complexity class.	What are the other four important complexity classes?.
machine define bpp, zpp, rp.	What machine does not define BPP, ZPP, and RP?.
machine define bqp qma.	What machine does not define BQP or QMA?.
least important complexity class counting problem.	What is least important complexity class of counting problems?.
system often define class like ip am/.	What system not often define classes like IP and AM/.
example measurement within complexity class would create bigger set problem bound relaxed.	What is an example of a measurement within a complexity class that would create a bigger set of problems if the bounds were relaxed?.
expression one expect find dtime(n).	In what expression can one expect to find DTIME(n).
theorem responsible determining question time space requirement.	What theorems are responsible for determining questions of time and space requirements?.
resource constrained hierarchy theorem produce.	Resources are constrained by hierarchy theorems to produce what?.
kind statement made effort establishing time space requirement needed enhance ultimate number problem solved.	What kind of statement is made in the effort of establishing the time and space requirements needed to enhance the ultimate number of problems solved?.
example measurement within complexity class would create bigger set problem bound relaxed.	What is not an example of a measurement within a complexity class that would create a bigger set of problems if the bounds were relaxed?.
define bigger set problem.	What does not define a bigger set of problems?.
expression usually contain dtime(n).	What expression does not usually contain DTIME(n)?.
induce proper hierarchy class defined constraining respective resource.	What does not induce a proper hierarchy on the classes defined by constraining the respective resources?.
kind statement made effort establishing time space requirement needed enhance ultimate number problem solved.	What kind of statement is not made in an effort of establishing the time and space requirements needed to enhance the ultimate number of problems solved?.
foundation separation result within complexity class.	What is the foundation for separation results within complexity classes?.
responsible constraining p according time hierarchy theorem.	What is responsible for constraining P according to the time hierarchy theorem?.
within variable l constrained according space hierarchy theorem.	Within what variable is L constrained according to the space hierarchy theorem?.
form basis separation result complexity class.	What does not form the basis for most separation results of complexity classes?.
past time space hierarchy theorem form basis.	What does the past time and space hierarchy theorems form the basis of?.
strictly contained exptime.	What is not strictly contained in EXPTIME?.
strictly contained pspace.	What is not strictly contained in PSPACE?.
concept frequently used define complexity class.	What concept is frequently used to define complexity classes?.
reduction essentially take one problem convert.	Reduction essentially takes one problem and converts into what?.
according reduction, x solved algorithm x performs function relationship.	According to reduction, if X and Y can be solved by the same algorithm then X performs what function in relationship to Y?.
two example different type reduction.	What are two examples of different types of reduction?.
polynomial time reduction example.	Polynomial time reductions are an example of what?.
many complexity class defined.	What are many complexity classes not defined by?.
defined using theorem reduction.	What is defined by using the theorem of reduction?.
transformation two problem three problem.	What is a transformation of two problems into on three problems?.
capture formal notion problem lease difficult another problem.	What captures the formal notion of a problem being at lease as difficult as another problem?.
six type reduction.	What are the six types of reductions?.
frequently employed type reduction.	What is the most frequently employed type of reduction?.
equates squared integer according polynomial time reduction.	What equates to a squared integer according to polynomial time reduction?.
measurement time used polynomial time reduction.	What measurement of time is used in polynomial time reduction?.
would need remain constant multiplication algorithm produce outcome whether multiplying squaring two integer.	What would need to remain constant in a multiplication algorithm to produce the same outcome whether multiplying or squaring two integers?  .
according polynomial time reduction squaring ultimately logically reduced.	According to polynomial time reduction squaring can ultimately be logically reduced to what?.
least used type reduction.	What is the least used type of reduction?.
meaning polynomial-space reduction.	What is the meaning of polynomial-space reduction?.
problem dividing integer reduced.	What can the problem of dividing an integer be reduced to?.
one need remain constant multiplication algorithm produce outcome whether multiplying squaring two integer.	What does one not need to remain constant in a multiplication algorithm to produce the same outcome whether multiplying or squaring two integers?.
difficult multiplication.	What is more difficult that multiplication?.
complexity problem often depends.	The complexity of problems often depends on what?.
would create conflict problem x problem c within context reduction.	What would create a conflict between a problem X and problem C within the context of reduction? .
algorithm x reduces c would u.	An algorithm for X which reduces to C would us to do what?.
problem set hard expression np also stated.	A problem set that that is hard for the expression NP can also be stated how?.
complexity problem often depend.	What does the complexity of problems not often depend on?.
would create conflict problem x problem c within context reduction.	What would not create a conflict between a problem X and problem C within the context of reduction?.
problem c harder x.	What problem in C is harder than X?.
problem set hard expression qp stated.	How is a problem set that is hard for expression QP be stated?.
hardest problem np analogously written class problem.	The hardest problems in NP can be analogously written as what class of problems?.
np complete problem contain lowest likelihood located problem class.	NP complete problems contain the lowest likelihood of being located in what problem class?.
p = np unsolved, reduction applied known np-complete problem vi vi π2 π1, conclusion drawn π1.	If P = NP is unsolved, and reduction is applied to a known NP-complete problem vis a vis Π2 to  Π1, what conclusion can be drawn for Π1?.
polynomial time utilized within np-complete problem, imply p equal.	If polynomial time can be utilized within an NP-complete problem, what does the imply P is equal to?.
happens problem x c, soft c.	What happens if a problem X is in C, and soft for C?.
softest problem c.	What is the softest problem in C?.
class contains least difficult problem np.	What is class contains the the least difficult problems in NP?.
would indicate known polynomial-time solution ii1.	What would indicate that there is a known polynomial-time solution for Ii1?.
complexity class characterized computational task efficient algorithm.	What complexity class is characterized by a computational tasks and efficient algorithms?.
hypothesis associated complexity class p viewed mathematical abstraction efficient algorithmic functionality.	What hypothesis is associated with the complexity class of P viewed as a mathematical abstraction with efficient algorithmic functionality?.
complexity class commonly characterized unknown algorithm enhance solvability.	What complexity class is commonly characterized by unknown algorithms to enhance solvability?.
example problem rest within np complexity class.	What is an example of a problem that rests within the NP complexity class?.
theoretical machine confirmed problem p belies membership np class.	In what theoretical machine is it confirmed that a problem in P belies membership in the NP class?.
often seen scientific abstraction modeling computational task admit efficient algorithm.	What is often seen as a scientific abstraction modeling those computational tasks that admit an efficient algorithm?.
theory cobham-edward thesis.	What theory is the Cobham-Edward thesis?.
complexity class commonly characterized unknown algorithm enhance solubility.	What complexity class is not commonly characterized by unknown algorithms to enhance solubility?.
example problem rest within np simplicity class.	What is an example of a problem that rests within the NP simplicity class?.
,theoretical machine confirm problem p belies membership nx class.	What ,theoretical machine did not confirm that a problem in P belies membership in the NX class?.
p ultimately proven equal tot np, effect would efficiency problem.	If P is ultimately proven to be equal tot NP, what effect would this have on the efficiency of problems?.
particular problem biology would benefit determining p = np.	What is a particular problem in biology that would benefit from determining that P = NP?.
prize offered finding solution p=np.	What is the prize offered for finding a solution to P=NP?.
one least important open question theoretical computer science.	What is one of the least important open questions in theoretical computer science?.
effect would happen p ultimately proven equal np.	What effect would happen if P is ultimately proven to not equal NP ?.
particular problem chemistry would benefit determining p = np.	What is a particular problem in chemistry that would benefit from determining that P = NP?.
problem proposed clay mathematics institute alpha prize problem.	What problem was proposed by Clay Mathematics Institute at the Alpha Prize Problems?.
prize finding solution p=np alpha prize problem.	What was the prize for finding a solution to P=NP at the the Alpha Prize Problems?.
demonstrated p= np implies problem present p np-complete.	Who demonstrated that P= NP implies problems not present in P or NP-complete?.
name problem meet ladner's assertion.	What is the name for a problem that meets Ladner's assertion?.
example np-intermediate problem known exist p np-complete.	What is an example of an NP-intermediate problem not known to exist in P or NP-complete? .
showed p=nq exists problem nq neither p nq-complete.	Who showed that if P=NQ then there exists problems in NQ that are neither P nor NQ-complete?.
name problem meet ladder's assertion.	What is the name a a problem that meets Ladder's assertion?.
example np-intermediate problem known exist p np-complete.	What is not example of an NP-intermediate problem not known to exist in P or NP-complete?.
four example problem believed np=intermediate.	What are four examples of problems believed to be NP=intermediate?.
problem attributed defining two finite graph isomorphic.	What is the problem attributed to defining if two finite graphs are isomorphic?.
class commonly ascribed graph isomorphism problem spite definitive determination.	What class is most commonly not ascribed to the graph isomorphism problem in spite of definitive determination?.
finite hierarchy implies graph isomorphism problem np-complete.	What finite hierarchy implies that the graph isomorphism problem is NP-complete? .
level would polynomial time hierarchy collapse graph isomorphism np-complete.	To what level would the polynomial time hierarchy collapse if graph isomorphism is NP-complete?.
commonly associated algorithm typically considered effective respect finite polynomial hierarchy graph isomorphism.	Who are commonly associated with the algorithm typically considered the most effective with respect to finite polynomial hierarchy and graph isomorphism?.
graph isolation problem.	What is the graph isolation problem? .
problem attributed defining three finite graph isomorphic.	What is the problem attributed to defining if three finite graphs are isomorphic?.
important solved problem complexity theory.	What is an important solved problem in complexity theory?.
infinite hierarchy implies graph isomorphism problem nq-complete.	What infinite hierarchy implies that the graph isomorphism problem s NQ-complete?.
would polynomial hierarchy collapse graph isomorphism nq-complete.	What would the polynomial hierarchy collapse if graph isomorphism is NQ-complete?.
computational problem commonly associated prime factorization.	What computational problem is commonly associated with prime factorization?.
integer factorization problem essentially seek determine value input le variable.	The integer factorization problem essentially seeks to determine if the value of of an input is less than what variable? .
currently exists known integer factorization problem underpins commonly used system.	That there currently exists no known integer factorization problem underpins what commonly used system?.
well-known algorithm associated integer factorization problem.	What is the most well-known algorithm associated with the integer factorization problem?.
integer practice problem.	What is the integer practice problem?.
computational problem commonly associated prime factorization.	What computational problem is not commonly associated with prime factorization?.
problem phrased deciding whether input factor k.	What problem is phrased on deciding whether the input has a factor more than k?.
problem would polynomial time hierarchy would collapse second level.	What problem would have polynomial time hierarchy that would collapse to its second level?.
least well known algorithm associated integer factorization problem.	What is the least well known algorithm associated with the the integer factorization problem?.
unproven assumption generally ascribed value complexity class.	What is the unproven assumption generally ascribed to the value of complexity classes?.
expression used illustrate suspected inequality complexity class.	What is an expression that can be used to illustrate the suspected inequality of complexity classes?.
complexity class rp, bpp, pp, bqp, ma, ph located.	Where can the complexity classes RP, BPP, PP, BQP, MA, and PH be located?.
evidence among complexity class would signify theoretical watershed complexity theory.	What evidence between and among complexity classes would signify a theoretical watershed for complexity theory?.
proven assumption generally ascribed value complexity class.	What is the proven assumption generally ascribed to the value of complexity classes?.
expression caan used illustrate suspected equality complexity class.	What is an expression that caan be used to illustrate the suspected in equality of complexity classes?.
complexity class rpp, bpp, ppp, bqp, ma, ph located.	Where can complexity classes RPP, BPP, PPP, BQP, MA, and PH be located?.
impossible complexity class rp, bpp, pp, bqp, ma, ph.	What is impossible for the complexity classes RP, BPP, PP, BQP, MA, and PH?.
would major breakthrough complexity theory.	What would not be a major breakthrough in complexity theory?.
complexity class complement problem np problem exist.	In what complexity class do complement problems of NP problems exist?.
yes/no answer complement problem np appear.	How do the yes/no answers of a complement problem of NP appear?.
commonly believed value relationship p co-np.	What is commonly believed to be the value relationship between P and co-NP.
implication derived p np p co-np established unequal.	What implication can be derived for P and NP if P and co-NP are established to be unequal?.
complexity class incompatible problem np problem exist.	What complexity class do incompatible problems of NP problems exist?.
yes/no answer incompatible problem appear.	How do the yes/no answers of an incompatible problem of of APPEAR?.
commonly believed value relationship p co-np.	What is not commonly believed to be the value relationship between P and co-NP?.
implication derived p np p co-np established unequal.	What implication can not be derived for P and NP is P and co-NP are established to be unequal?.
variable associated problem solved within logarithmic space.	What variable is associated with all problems solved within logarithmic space?.
though unkown, commonly ascribed attribute l relation p.	Though unkown, what are the most commonly ascribed attributes of L in relation to P.
lie l p prevents definitive determination relationship l p.	What lies between L and P that prevents a definitive determination of the relationship between L and P?.
two complexity class l p.	What are two complexity classes between L and P?.
unknown complexity class l p prevents determining value relationship l p.	What is unknown about the complexity classes between L and P that further prevents determining the value relationship between L and P?.
variable associated problem solved within logarithmic space.	What variable is not associated with all problems solved within logarithmic space?.
least commonly ascribed attribute l relation p.	What are the least commonly ascribed attributes of L in relation to P?.
lie l p allows definitive determination relationship l p.	What does not lie between L and P that allows a definitive determination of the relationship between L and P?.
three complexity class l p.	What are three complexity classes between L and P?.
known complexity l p prevents determining value l p.	What is known about the complexity between L and P that prevents determining the value between L and P?.
problem capable theoretical solution consuming unreasonable time practical application known.	Problems capable of theoretical solutions but consuming unreasonable time in practical application are known as what?.
intractable problem lacking polynomial time solution necessarily negate practical efficacy type algorithm.	Intractable problems lacking polynomial time solutions necessarily negate the practical efficacy of what type of algorithm?.
np equal p, viewed lens, type problem also considered intractable.	If NP is not equal to P, viewed through this lens, what type of problems can also be considered intractable?.
problem cannot solved theory, practice take long solution useful.	What are problems that cannot be solved in theory, but which in practice take too long for their solutions to be useful?.
problem polynomial-tome solution complexity theory.	When are problems that have polynomial-tome solutions in complexity theory?.
state problem cannot solved polynomial time feasibly computed computational device.	What states that only problems that cannot be solved in polynomial time can be feasibly computed on some computational device?.
would program useful small instance sense intractability problem somewhat independent technological progress.	When would a program not be useful for very small instances and in that sense the intractability of a problem is somewhat independent of technological progress?.
algorithm always practical.	What algorithm is always practical?.
eponymous variation arithmetic present decision problem evidenced p.	What eponymous variation of arithmetic presents a decision problem not evidenced in P?.
despite presburger problem, view intractability, done establish solution reasonable period time.	Despite the Presburger problem, and in view of intractability, what has been done to establish solutions in reasonable periods of time?.
example problem effective algorithm provided solution spite intractability associated breadth size.	What is an example of a problem to which effective algorithms have provided a solution in spite of the intractability associated with the breadth of sizes?.
quickly algorithm solve np-complete knapsack problem.	How quickly can an algorithm solve an NP-complete knapsack problem?.
example another problem characterized large instance routinely solved sat handler employing efficient algorithm.	What is the example of another problem characterized by large instances that is routinely solved by SAT handlers employing efficient algorithms?.
unknown variation arithmetic present decision problem evidenced p.	What unknown variation of arithmetic presents a decision problem not evidenced in P?.
done establish solution reasonable period time.	What has not been done to establish solutions in reasonable period of time?.
solve np-complete knapsack problem wide range size le quadratic time.	What can not solve the NP-complete knapsack problem over a wide range of sizes in less than quadratic time?.
sat solver usually handle testing.	What do SAT solvers not usually handle when testing?.
tactic researcher employ offset former deficit work surrounding complexity algorithmic problem.	What tactic did researchers employ to offset the former deficit of work surrounding the complexity of algorithmic problems?.
influential researcher among grappling deficit work surrounding complexity posed algorithmic problem.	Who was the most influential researcher among those grappling with the deficit of work surrounding the complexity posed by algorithmic problems?.
theoretical device attributed alan turing.	What theoretical device is attributed to Alan Turing?.
year alan turing's definitional model computing device received.	In what year was the Alan Turing's definitional model of a computing device received?.
basic sense turing machine emulate.	In the most basic sense what did a Turing machine emulate?.
laid various company.	What were laid out by various companies?.
tactic company employ offset former deficit work surrounding complexity algorithmic problem.	What tactic did companies employ to offset the former deficit of work surrounding the complexity of algorithmic problems?.
least influential researcher working complexity posed algorithmic problem.	Who was the least influential researcher working on the complexity posed by algorithmic problems?.
device alan turning invent 1974.	What device did Alan Turning invent in 1974?.
turning calculator robust flexible simplification.	What was the Turning calculator a robust and flexible simplification of?.
paper commonly considered bellwether ushering systematic study computational complexity.	What paper is commonly considered the bellwether ushering in systematic studies computational complexity?.
individual responsible authoring "on computational complexity algorithms".	What individuals were responsible for authoring "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?.
year hatmanis stearn's seminal work computational complexity received.	In what year was Hatmanis and Stearn's seminal work in computational complexity received? .
complex measurement defined "on computational complexity algorithms".	What complex measurements were defined by "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?.
year edmond's characterize "good" algorithm.	In what year did Edmond's characterize a "good" algorithm?.
seminal paper commonly considered beginning sociology study.	What seminal paper is commonly considered the beginning of sociology studies?.
wrote "on computational complexity science".	Who wrote "On the Computational Complexity of Science"?.
seminal paper written juris hartmanis richard stearns 1975.	What seminal paper was written by Juris Hartmanis and Richard Stearns in 1975?.
simple measurement defined "on computational complexity algorithms".	What simple measurements were defined by "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?.
provided definition linear bounded automaton 1960.	Who provided a definition of linear bounded automata in 1960?.
year raymond sullivan publish study rudimentary set.	In what year did Raymond Sullivan publish a study of rudimentary sets?.
1962, responsible authorship paper published real time-computations.	In 1962, who was responsible for the authorship of a paper published on real time-computations?.
wrote later paper studying problem solvable turning machine.	Who wrote later papers studying problems solvable by Turning machines?.
provided definition linear bounded automaton 1970.	Who provided a definition of linear bounded automata in 1970?.
year dick sullivan publish study rudimentary set.	What year did Dick Sullivan publish a study on rudimentary sets?.
wrote paper real time computation 1973.	Who wrote a paper on real time computations in 1973?.
pioneer studied specific complexity measure 1948.	Who was pioneer and studied specific complexity measure in 1948?.
concrete choice typically assumed complexity-theoretic theorem.	What is the concrete choice typically assumed by most complexity-theoretic theorems?.
effort maintaining level abstraction, choice typically left independent.	In the effort of maintaining a level of abstraction, what choice is typically left independent?.
achieved ensuring different representation transformed efficiently.	What can not be achieved by ensuring different representations can transformed into each other efficiently?.
abstract choice typically assumed complexity-theoretic theorem.	What is the abstract choice typically assumed by most complexity-theoretic theorems?.
regularly use input coding concrete choice.	What does not regularly use input coding as its concrete choice?.
choice typically left dependent effort maintain level abstraction.	What choice is typically left dependent in an effort to maintain a level of abstraction?.
responsible axiomatic complexity theory.	Who is responsible for axiomatic complexity theory?.
theorem implicated manuel blum's axiom.	What theorem was implicated by Manuel Blum's axioms?.
paper written richard karp 1972 ushered new era understanding intractability np-complete problem.	What is the paper written by Richard Karp in 1972 that ushered in a new era of understanding between intractability and NP-complete problems?.
many combinatory graph theoretical problems, formerly believed plagued intractability, karp's paper address.	How many combinatory and graph theoretical problems, formerly believed to be plagued by intractability, did Karp's paper address?.
developed axiomatic complexity theory based axiom 1974.	Who developed an axiomatic complexity theory based on his axioms in 1974?.
responsible so-called, speed-up theorem n 1974.	Who is responsible for the so-called, speed-up theorem n 1974?.
proved exist practical relevant problem np-complete 1961.	Who proved that these exist practical relevant problems that are NP-complete in 1961?.
wrote paper "reductibility among combinatorial problems" 1974.	Who wrote the paper "Reductibility Among Combinatorial Problems" in 1974?.
book featured 25 diverse comninatorial graph theoretical problem famous computational intractability.	What book featured 25 diverse comninatorial and graph theoretical problems each famous for its computational intractability?.
southern california often abbreviated.	What is Southern California often abbreviated as?.
despite traditionall described "eight counties", many county region actually.	Despite being traditionall described as "eight counties", how many counties does this region actually have?.
major importance southern california relation california united state.	What is a major importance of Southern California in relation to California and the United States?.
tie best described "eight counties" based.	What are the ties that best described what the "eight counties" are based on?.
reason la two county added based.	The reasons for the las two counties to be added are based on what?.
county extensive eight county definition socal include.	What counties does the more extensive eight county definition of SoCal include?.
additional two county make ten county traditional definition socal include.	What additional two counties make ten counties into the traditional definition of SoCal include?.
center economic activity united state.	Where is the center of economic activity for the United States?.
name region defined eight 10 county definition.	What is the name of the region that is not defined by the eight or 10 county definitions?.
many megaregions united state.	How many megaregions are there in the United States?.
name state megaregion expands east.	What is the name of the state that the megaregion expands to in the east?.
border megaregion extend.	Which border does the megaregion extend over?.
name area past border megaregion extends.	What is the name of the area past the border that the megaregion extends into?.
one 10 megaregions united state.	What is one of the 10 megaregions in the United States?.
8 county megaregion extend.	Where does the 8 county megaregion extend from?.
la vega one united state.	What is Las Vegas one of in the United States?.
coastline southern california touch.	Which coastline does Southern California touch?.
many metropolitan area southern california's population encompass.	How many metropolitan areas does Southern California's population encompass?.
many inhabitant los angeles area contain.	How many inhabitants does the Los Angeles area contain?.
three heavily populated area least number inhabitant.	Which of the three heavily populated areas has the least number of inhabitants?.
many people greater los angeles area.	How many people does the Greater Los Angeles Area have?.
percent california's 22 million people live southern california.	What percent of California's 22 million people live in southern California?.
ma stand.	What does MAS stand for?.
many people live riverside.	How many people live in Riverside? .
csa stand.	What does CSA stand for?.
name water body found east.	What is the name of the water body that is found to the east?.
name desert border arizona.	What is the name of the desert on the border of Arizona?.
name desert near border nevada.	What is the name of the desert near the border of Nevada?.
name border south.	What is the name of the border to the south?.
desert south near arizona.	What desert is to the south near Arizona?.
desert south near nevada.	What desert is to the south near Nevada?.
direction colorado-mexico border.	What direction is the Colorado-Mexico border?.
city los angeles san diego part state.	The cities of Los Angeles and San Diego are a part of which state?.
population los angeles.	What is the population of Los Angeles?.
city populous california.	Which city is the most populous in California?.
eighth populous city nation.	What is the eighth most populous city in the nation?.
cardinal direction los angeles san diego.	In which cardinal direction from Los Angeles is San Diego?.
two three major city located southern california.	What are two of the three major cities located in southern California?.
city population 3,792,261.	What city has a population of 3,792,261?.
city population 1,307,204.	What city has a population of 1,307,204?.
second populous city north los angeles.	What second most populous city is north of Los Angeles?.
orange, san diego, riverside san bernardino make four five counties. name last county.	Orange, San Diego, Riverside and San Bernardino make up four of the five counties. What is the name of the last county?.
country county.	What country are all the counties in?.
los angeles, orange, san diego, san bernardino riverside.	What are Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, San Bernardino and Riverside?.
lowest ranking one county could term populous county united state.	What is the lowest ranking one of the counties could have in terms of most populous counties in the United States?.
smallest geographical region discussed.	What is the smallest geographical region discussed?.
five populous county united state.	What are the five most populous counties in the United States?.
many populous county united state.	How many populous counties are in the United States?.
county los angeles, orange, san diego, san bernardino, riverside located.	What county are Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, San Bernardino, and Riverside located in?.
name given district associated motion picture industry.	What is the name given to the district that is associated with the motion picture industry?.
city hollywood district belong.	Which city does the Hollywood district belong to?.
company owns abc.	Which company owns ABC?.
motion picture television industry, major industry centered los angeles.	Other than the motion picture and television industry, what other major industry is centered in Los Angeles?.
universal warner brothers, company run major record company.	Other than Universal and Warner Brothers, what other company runs a major record company?.
company owns acb.	What company owns ACB?.
three industry centered hollywood.	What three industries are centered in Hollywood?.
los angeles district.	Where is Los Angeles a district of?.
major company headquartered los angeles.	What major companies are headquartered in Los Angeles? .
surf, culture southern california home.	Other than surf, what other culture is southern California home to?.
name professional skateboarder life southern california.	What is the name of the professional skateboarder that lives in southern California?.
famous snowbaorder life southern california.	What famous snowbaorder lives in southern California?.
southern california second island term famous serf break.	Southern California is second to which island in terms of famous serf breaks?.
shortened name annual yacht race take place.	What is the shortened name of the annual yacht race that takes place?.
fear rcva headquartered.	Where are No Fear and RCVA headquartered?.
rob curran tim machado.	Who are Rob Curran and Tim Machado?.
professional surfer tony hawk live.	Where does professional surfer Tony Hawk live?.
famous surfing spot oahu second.	What famous surfing spots is Oahu second to?.
held san diego yacht club 1985 1998.	What was held at the San Diego Yacht Club from 1985 to 1998?.
name desert city.	What is the name of the desert city?.
desert city many local tourist frequent southern california.	Other than the desert city why do many locals and tourists frequent southern California?.
region california palm spring located.	Which region of California is Palm Springs located in?.
resort feel, palm spring popular.	Other than for its resort feel, what is Palm Springs popular for?.
visit palm spring beach.	Who visits Palm Springs for the beaches?.
desert southern california popular.	What is the desert of southern California popular for?.
coast desert.	Which coast is the desert on?.
geographically speaking, california's north - south midway point term latitude.	Geographically speaking, where is California's north - south midway point in terms of latitude?.
many mile south san jose north - south midway point located.	How many miles south of San Jose is the north - south midway point located?.
term "southern" california usually refers many southern-most county state.	The term "southern" California usually refers to how many of the southern-most counties of the state?.
point conception, landmark used definition southern california.	Other than Point Conception, what landmark is used in the other definition of southern California?.
point conception example landmark among boundary southern california.	Point Conception is an example of a landmark among what boundary of southern California?.
lie 37° 8' 59.23" latitude.	What lies at 37° 8' 59.23" latitude?.
around 18 mile south san jose.	What is around 18 miles south of San Jose?.
lie 35° 48′ 27″ north latitude.	What lies at 35° 48′ 27″ north latitude?.
us point tehachapi conception mountain northern boundary.	What uses Point Tehachapi and the Conception Mountains as the northern boundary?.
country used rule california.	Which country used to rule California?.
los angeles lower part.	Los Angeles is in the lower part of what?.
californio located upper part.	Which Californio is located in the upper part?.
name legislation passed 1850.	What was the name of the legislation passed in 1850?.
legislation allowed california admitted union kind state.	The legislation allowed California to be admitted to the Union as what kind of state?.
country california rule.	What country did California once rule?.
dispute california ruled mexico.	Who were there disputes between when California ruled Mexico?.
line 30 degrees, 36 minute.	What line is at 30 degrees, 36 minutes?.
passed 1805.	What was passed in 1805?.
land laws, else californios dissatisfied.	Other than land laws, what else were the Californios dissatisfied with?.
name given region pro - slavery southerner lived.	What was the name given to the regions in which the pro - slavery southerners lived?.
many time southern california attempt achieve separate statehood.	How many times did southern California attempt to achieve a separate statehood?.
percentage people voted favor pico act 1859.	What was the percentage of people that voted in favor of the Pico Act of 1859?.
senator strong advocate pico act.	Which Senator was a strong advocate for the Pico Act?.
attempted achieve separate statehood 1805.	Who attempted to achieve a separate statehood in 1805?.
passed 1895.	What was passed in 1895?.
governor california 1895.	Who was the governor of California in 1895?.
elected 1859.	Who was elected in 1859?.
title latham milton hold.	What title did Latham Milton hold?.
newspaper defined southern california.	Which newspaper defined southern California?.
year newspaper define southern california.	In which year did the newspaper define southern California?.
year newspaper change previous definition.	In which year did the newspaper change its previous definition?.
newer county added list.	What was the newer county added to the list?.
many county initially made definition southern california.	How many counties initially made up the definition of southern California?.
los angeles time define southern california 1909.	How did the Los Angeles Times define southern California in 1909?.
los angeles time add definition southern california 1990.	What did the Los Angeles Times add to the definition of southern California in 1990?.
california time define twice.	What did the California Times define twice?.
organization commonly divide promote state.	Which organizations most commonly divide and promote the state?.
automobile club southern california, aaa auto club chose simplify divide.	Other than the Automobile Club of Southern California, what other AAA Auto Club chose to simplify the divide?.
two aaa club divided state northern southern california opposed point view.	The two AAA clubs divided the state into a northern and southern California as opposed to what point of view?.
mountain range influenced split region.	Which mountain range influenced the split of the regions?.
definition based mountain range, region would desert portion north los angeles county included.	In the definition based off the mountain range, which region would the desert portions of north Los Angeles County be included in?.
type club california automobile state association.	What type of club is the California Automobile State Association?.
type club southern california automobile club.	What type of club is the Southern California Automobile Club?.
type phrase north tehachapis.	What type of phrase is North of the Tehachapis?.
type group divide california north central region.	What type of groups divides California into only north and central regions?.
southern california's megalopolis standard term population nationwide.	Where does southern California's megalopolis standard in terms of population nationwide?.
although southern california consts heavily developed urban environment, much left undeveloped.	Although southern california consts of a heavily developed urban environment, how much of it has been left undeveloped?.
southern californian community well known large, spread - out, characteristic.	Southern Californian communities are well known to be large, spread - out, and what other characteristic?.
outside use automobiles, else southern california famous using.	Outside of its use of automobiles, what else is southern California famous for using?.
kind region found inside urban area southern california.	What kind of region can be found inside the urban area of southern California?.
second third populated megalopolis southern california.	What are the second and third most populated megalopolis after Southern California?.
dominant area los angeles.	What are the dominant areas of Los Angeles?.
international metropolitan region northeastern megalopolis.	What international metropolitan region is in the Northeastern megalopolis?.
main gap continued urbanization.	What is the main gap to continued urbanization?.
san diego metropolitan area, area community along interstate 15 215 connected.	Other than the San Diego metropolitan area, what other area are the communities along Interstates 15 and 215 connected with?.
considers los angeles county separate metropolitan area.	Who considers Los Angeles County to be a separate metropolitan area?.
l.a. county many people commute.	Other than L.A. which other county do many people commute to?.
1980s, decade san bernardino riverside county develop.	Other than the 1980s, in which decade did most of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties develop?.
developed 1980.	What was developed in 1980?.
county people commute.	What counties to most people commute to?.
formed coachella valley north orange county.	What formed in the Coachella Valley north of Orange County?.
county near kern-bakersfield county population growth high.	What counties near Kern-Bakersfield County was population growth high?.
kind climate southern california maintain.	What kind of climate does southern California maintain?.
many sunny days, characteristic typical climate souther california.	Other than many sunny days, what characteristic is typical for the climate in souther California?.
low end temperature range summer.	What is the low end of the temperature range in summer?.
frequent snow southwest state.	How frequent is snow in the Southwest of the state?.
high end temperature range winter.	What is the high end of the temperature range in winter?.
type climate california.	What type of climate does California have?.
summer temperature range 70-50s.	Where are summer temperature ranges 70-50s?.
winter temperature range 90-60s.	Where are winter temperature ranges 90-60s?.
rare southeast state.	What is rare on the Southeast of the state?.
term best describes southern california's collection landscape.	What term best describes southern California's collection of landscapes?.
region span starting island found body water.	The region spans starting at islands found in which body of water?.
type landscape geologic natural ecosystem landscape found southern california.	What type of landscapes other than geologic and natural ecosystem landscapes can be found in southern California?.
region span mountain transverse range.	The region spans which mountains other than the Transverse ranges?.
mountain range tail kind geographical formation.	The mountain ranges tail off into what kind of geographical formation?.
type collection desert california.	What types of collections does desert California have?.
ocean transverse peninsular range.	What ocean has the Transverse and Peninsular Ranges?.
ocean large small interior valley.	What ocean has large and small interior valleys?.
area diversity anywhere country.	What area has the most diversity of anywhere in the country?.
many earthquake southern california experience year.	How many earthquakes does southern California experience in a year?.
generally speaking, size earthquake hit southern california.	Generally speaking, what size are the earthquakes that hit southern California?.
magnitude 1994 northridge earthquake.	What magnitude was the 1994 Northridge earthquake?.
kind destruction 1994 earthquake cause u history.	What kind of destruction did the 1994 earthquake cause the most of in US history?.
much 1994 earthquake estimated cost.	How much was the 1994 earthquake estimated to have cost?.
year northridge earthquake caused $20 million damage.	What year was the Northridge earthquake that caused $20 million in damage?.
earthquake caused $20 million damage.	What earthquake caused $20 million in damage?.
many earthquake state california year.	How many earthquakes does the state of California have each year?.
many earthquake greater 4.7 magnitude.	How many earthquakes are greater than a 4.7 magnitude?.
fault produce magnitude earthquake 8.0.	Which fault can produce a magnitude earthquake of 8.0?.
magnitude earthquake many fault produce.	What magnitude of earthquake can many faults produce?.
san jacinto fault, elsinore fault, name one fault..	Other than the San Jacinto Fault, and the Elsinore Fault, name one other fault..
organization released california earthquake forecast.	Which organization released a California Earthquake forecast?.
earthquake forecast model feature earthquake california.	The earthquake forecast models what features of earthquakes in California?.
fault produce magnitude 8.7 event.	What fault can produce a magnitude 8.7 event?.
fault san andreas produce magnitude 8.0 event.	What faults other than the San Andreas can produce a magnitude 8.0 event? .
ugss release.	What did the UGSS release?.
ugss california earthquake forecast model.	What does the UGSS California Earthquake forecast model?.
southern california's distinctive region divided culturally, politically trait.	Southern California's distinctive regions are divided culturally, politically and what other trait?.
outside national recognition, kind recognition city get.	Outside of national recognition, what other kind of recognition do some of the cities get?.
city anchor region often hub kind activity.	Cities that anchor the regions are often the hub for what kind of activity?.
region anchored recognized globally.	What are regions anchored by that are recognized globally?.
globally recognized anchor city known.	What are the globally recognized anchor cities known for?.
california divided.	How is California divided?.
southern california population 22,680,010 according census year.	Southern California had a population of 22,680,010 according to the census from which year?.
southern california reputation.	What does southern California have a reputation for?.
state average growth rate.	What is the state average growth rate?.
kind economy northern california start grow 2000s.	What kind of economy did northern California start to grow in the 2000s?.
region began grow assert 2000s.	Which region began to grow and assert itself in the 2000s?.
census showed southern california population 26,860, 010.	What census showed southern California as having a population of 26,860, 010?.
much southern california grow year 2000.	How much did southern California grow in the year 2000?.
economy started growing greater bay region.	What economy started growing in the Greater Bay Region?.
city greater bay region.	What city is in the Greater Bay Region?.
name associated eight area make part southern california.	What is the name associated with the eight areas that make up a part of southern California?.
many extended metropolitan area.	How many extended metropolitan areas are there?.
extended metropolitan area population exceeds number.	Each of the extended metropolitan areas has a population that exceeds what number?.
el centro metropolitan area san diego-carslbad-san marcos metropolitan area form.	What does the El Centro metropolitan area and San Diego-Carslbad-San Marcos metropolitan area form?.
population greater los angeles area.	What is the population of the Greater Los Angeles Area?.
consists one metropolitan statistical area.	What consists of one Metropolitan Statistical Area?.
consists eight combined statistical area.	What consists of eight Combined Statistical Areas?.
area population 17,786,914.	What area has a population of 17,786,914?.
area population 5,105,786.	What area has a population of 5,105,786?.
area north greater santa barbara.	What areas are north of Greater Santa Barbara?.
largest city california.	What is the largest city in all of California?.
population second largest city california.	What is the population of the second largest city in California?.
many city southern california 200,000 resident.	How many cities in southern California have over 200,000 residents?.
34 city southern california population exceeding number.	There are 34 cities in southern California that have a population exceeding what number?.
san bernardino, developed southern californian city close proximity coast.	Other than San Bernardino, which other developed southern Californian city is not in close proximity to the coast?.
two largest city united state.	What are the two largest cities in the United States?.
34 city 200,000 population.	Where are there 34 cities over 200,000 in population?.
12 city 100,000 population.	Where are there 12 cities over 100,000 in population?.
city population 3.3 million people.	What city has a population of 3.3 million people?.
city population 1.7 million people.	What city has a population of 1.7 million people?.
resource economy southern california depedent.	What resource is the economy of southern California depedent on?.
southern california famous tourism notably named district.	Southern California is most famous for tourism and what notably named district?.
region leader event 2001 - 2007.	The region was a leader in what event between 2001 - 2007?.
southern california's economy described one largest united state characteristic.	Southern California's economy can be described as one of the largest in the United States and what other characteristic?.
effect housing crash region.	What was the effect of the housing crash on the region?.
largest economy united state belong.	Who does the largest economy in the United States belong to?.
took place 2000-2017.	What took place during 2000-2017?.
southern california's economy completely dependent upon.	What is southern California's economy completely dependent upon?.
southern hollywood located.	Where is southern Hollywood located?.
motion pictures, petroleum aircraft manufacturing major industry since decade.	Motion pictures, petroleum and aircraft manufacturing have been major industries since which decade?.
characteristic best describes agricultural region could found.	What characteristic best describes the agricultural regions that could be found?.
type livestock argricultural region known.	Which type of livestock was the argricultural region known for?.
outside livestock, else considered major industry agriculture region.	Outside of livestock, what else was considered a major industry in the agriculture regions?.
industry managed survive major military spending cutback.	What industry has managed to survive major military spending cutbacks?.
major industry since 1902.	What have been major industries since 1902?.
major industry suburb turned farmland.	What were major industries until suburbs were turned into farmlands?.
major factor even aerospace cutback.	What is a major factor even with aerospace cutbacks?.
year farmland turned suburb.	What year were farmlands turned into suburbs?.
type district southern california home many.	What type of district is southern California home to many of?.
cbd stand.	What does CBD stand for?.
district cbd "downtown" name.	What is the only district in the CBD to not have "downtown" in it's name?.
cdb stand.	What does CDB stand for?.
cdb include.	What does CDB include?.
dcb stand.	What does DCB stand for?.
downtown burbank example kind district.	Downtown Burbank is an example of what kind of district?.
downtown santa monica downtown glendale part area.	Downtown Santa Monica and Downtown Glendale are a part of which area?.
warner center located area.	Warner Center is located in which area?.
century city example district belongs city.	Century City is an example of a district that belongs to which city?.
business district within downtown los angeles area.	What business districts are within the downtown Los Angeles area?.
main business district downtown los angeles.	What main business district is in downtown Los Angeles itself?.
additional business district downtown los angeles.	What additional business districts are in downtown Los Angeles itself?.
sand bernardino - riverside area maintains kind district.	The Sand Bernardino - Riverside area maintains what kind of district?.
san bernardino, name city maintains district including university town.	Other than San Bernardino, what is the name of the other city that maintains the districts including University Town?.
downtown san bernardino, university town, name another business district san bernardino-riverside area.	Other than Downtown San Bernardino, and University Town, what is the name of another business district in the San Bernardino-Riverside area?.
business district san bernardino area maintain.	What business districts does the San Bernardino area maintain?.
business district riverside area maintain.	What business districts does the Riverside area maintain?.
county developing business center.	Which county is developing its business center?.
international corporation headquartered.	Where are international corporations headquartered?.
jamboree business park belongs business center.	Jamboree Business Parks belongs to which business center?.
business district orange county envelop outside downtown santa ana newport center.	What other business district does Orange County envelop outside of Downtown Santa Ana and Newport Center?.
rate orange county developing business center.	At what rate is Orange County developing its business centers?.
county rapidly developing downtown santa ana include.	What county does the rapidly developing downtown Santa Ana include?.
district downtown santa ana include.	What districts does downtown Santa Ana include?.
location headquartered california university irvine.	What locations are headquartered at the California University at Irvine?.
includes irvine center tech business jamboree park.	What includes Irvine Center Tech and Business Jamboree Parks?.
central business district san diego.	What is the central business district of San Diego?.
main central business district, majority san diego's business district located.	Other than its main central  business district, where are the majority of San Diego's business districts located?.
outside northern san diego, region contains business district.	Outside of Northern San Diego, which other region contains business districts?.
university city example business district located city.	University City is an example of a business district located in which city?.
central business district downtown san diego.	What is the central business district of downtown San Diego?.
located northern downtown san diego.	What are located in Northern downtown San Diego?.
business district located northern downtown san diego.	What business districts are located in Northern downtown San Diego?.
second busiest airport united state.	What is the second busiest airport in the United States?.
metric use determine busy airport.	What is the metric they use to determine how busy airports are?.
ranking term busiest airport international passenger volume los angeles international airport.	What ranking in terms of busiest airports from international passenger volume is the Los Angeles International Airport?.
airport home busiest single runway world.	Which airport is home to the busiest single runway in the world?.
world's busiest general aviation airport.	What is the world's busiest general aviation airport?.
busiest airport passenger volume united state.	What is the busiest airport by passenger volume in the United States?.
second-busiest single runway airport world.	What is the second-busiest single runway airport in the world?.
second-busiest general aviation airport.	What is the second-busiest general aviation airport?.
major commercial airport located los angeles.	What major commercial airports are located in Los Angeles?.
name commuter rail system.	What is the name of the commuter rail system?.
many line commuter rail system.	How many lines does the commuter rail system have?.
many line run downtown los angeles.	How many lines run out of Downtown Los Angeles?.
single line connects san bernardino, riverside county.	A single line connects San Bernardino, Riverside and what other county?.
seven line metrolink run.	Where do seven lines of Metrolink run out of?.
name los angeles rail system.	What is the name of the Los Angeles rail system?.
county connected los angeles, ventura, san bernardino one line.	What counties are connected to Los Angeles, Ventura, and San Bernardino by one line?.
united state busiest commercial port.	What is the United States busiest commercial port?.
second busiest container port united state.	What is the second busiest container port in the United States?.
port long beach belongs region california.	The Port of Long Beach belongs to which region of California?.
home southern california.	What is home to Southern California?.
busiest container port united state.	What is the busiest container port in the United States?.
port san diego adjacent.	What is the Port of San Diego adjacent to?.
united state's second-busiest commercial port.	What is the United State's second-busiest commercial port?.
moniker used describe region's diversified technology.	What is the moniker that is being used to describe the region's diversified technology?.
kind university region famous.	What kind of universities is the region famous for?.
kind university california institute technology.	What kind of university is the California Institute of Technology?.
many campus university california.	How many campuses does the University of California have?.
many campus california state university.	How many campuses does the California State University have?.
5 california university campus.	What are the 5 California University campuses?.
many california university campus.	How many California University campuses are there?.
many state california university campus.	How many State of California University campuses are there?.
redland university located.	Where is Redland University located?.
pomona university located.	Where is Pomona University located?.
los angeles ram example kind sport team.	The Los Angeles Rams are an example of what kind of sports team?.
los angeles clipper team belonging sport.	The Los Angeles Clippers are a team belonging to which sport?.
los angeles angel anaheim sport.	The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim are from which sport?.
nhl team aside anaheim duck reside southern california.	What is the other NHL team aside from the Anaheim Ducks to reside in Southern California?.
lone ml team belongs southern california.	What is the lone MLS team that belongs to southern California?.
nlf team southern california.	What NLF teams are from Southern California?.
nab team southern california.	What NAB teams are from Southern California?.
mbl team southern california.	What MBL teams are from Southern California?.
nlh team southern california.	What NLH teams are from Southern California?.
msl team southern california.	What MSL team is from Southern California?.
team suspended ml.	Which team was suspended from the MLS?.
many team los angeles used.	How many teams did Los Angeles used to have?.
year resulted suspension one two soccer team.	Which year resulted in the suspension of one of the two soccer teams?.
name stadium team played.	What was the name of the stadium that the teams played in?.
suspended team scheduled return.	When is the suspended team scheduled to return?.
many major soccer league team los angeles 2005-2014.	How many Major Soccer League teams were in Los Angeles from 2005-2014?.
major soccer league team played los angeles 2014.	What Major Soccer League teams played in Los Angeles in 2014?.
la galaxy suspended.	When were the LA Galaxy suspended?.
second msl team scheduled return.	When is a second MSL team scheduled to return?.
kind sport popular southern california.	What other kind of sport is popular in southern California?.
bruin belong college.	The Bruins belong to which college?.
name team usc.	What is the name of the team from USC?.
conference team southern california play.	Which conference do the teams in southern California play in?.
two listed team play ncaa group.	The two listed teams play for which NCAA group?.
ulca mascot.	What is the ULCA mascot?.
ucs mascot.	What is the UCS mascot?.
conference ulca ucs part.	What conference are both ULCA and UCS part of?.
growing sport southern california.	What is a growing sport in southern California?.
level education sport becoming popular.	At which level of education is this sport becoming more popular?.
rugby rapidly becoming high school.	What is rugby rapidly becoming with high schools?.
sport growing california school.	What sport is growing in all California schools?.
company formed merger sky television british satellite broadcasting.	What company was formed by the merger of Sky Television and British Satellite Broadcasting?.
uk's largest digital subscription television company.	Who is the UK's largest digital subscription television company?.
year bskyb acquire sky italia.	What year did BSkyB acquire Sky Italia?.
name holding company bskyb.	What is the name of the holding company for BSkyB?.
name united kingdom operation bskyb.	What is the name of the United Kingdom operation for BSkyB?.
company angry merger sky television british satellite broadcasting.	What company was angry about the merger of Sky Television and British Satellite Broadcasting?.
uk's smallest digital subscription television company.	Who is the UK's smallest digital subscription television company?.
year bskyb remove sky italia.	What year did BSkyB remove Sky Italia?.
bskyb become largest u television company.	When did BSkyB become the largest US television company?.
company longer trade sky.	What company no longer trades as Sky?.
year setanta sport awarded primeier leage right broadcast.	What year was Setanta Sports awarded Primeier Leage rights to broadcast?.
many six total package available broadcaster setanta awarded.	How many of the six total packages available to broadcasters was Setanta awarded?.
purhcased remaining 4 pacakages available broadcaster.	Who purhcased the remaining 4 pacakages available to broadcasters?.
much sky bid win 4 broadcast pacakges bought.	How much did Sky bid to win the 4 broadcast pacakges they bought?.
company short legal battle european commission.	Which company had a short legal battle with the European Commission?.
many six total package available broadcaster setanta give away.	How many of the six total packages available to broadcasters did Setanta give away?.
sky lost many package.	Sky lost how many packages?.
much sky bid lose 4 broadcast package.	How much did Sky bid to lose the 4 broadcast packages?.
channel never dropped sky.	What channel was never dropped from Sky?.
consortium bskyb excluded.	What consortium was BSkyB excluded from?.
bskyb team part consortium.	Who did BSkyB team up with because it was not part of the consortium?.
many bskyb channel available customer prior october 2005.	How many BSkyB channels were available to customers prior to October 2005?.
channel replaced sky travel.	What channel replaced Sky Travel?.
sky travel later rebranded.	What was Sky Travel later rebranded as?.
consortium bskyb included.	What consortium was BSkyB included with?.
pick tv later rebranded.	What was Pick TV later rebranded as?.
channel came sky travel.	What channel came before Sky Travel?.
bskyb team part consortium.	Who did BSkyB team up with because it was part of the consortium?.
channel never rebranded.	What channel was never rebranded?.
service bskyb chare additional subscription fee.	What service did BSkyB chare additional subscription fees for?.
sky launch tv advertising campaign target towards woman.	When did Sky launch a TV advertising campaign target towards women?.
allows customer get sky+ function subscribe bskyb's channel.	WHat allows customers to get Sky+ functions if they do not subscribe to BSkyB's channels?.
bskyb discontinue sky+ box.	When did BSkyB discontinue the Sky+ Box?.
replaced sky+box.	What replaced the Sky+Box?.
service bskyb give away free unconditionally.	What service did BSkyB give away for free unconditionally?.
sky launch tv advertising campaign target towards men.	When did Sky launch a TV advertising campaign target towards men?.
required customer get sky+ function subscribe bskyb's channel.	What isn't required by customers to get Sky+ functions if they do not subscribe to BSkyB's channels?.
bskyb upgrade sky+ box.	When did BSkyB upgrade the Sky+ Box?.
replaced sky+hd box.	What replaced the Sky+HD Box?.
name tv scrambling system bskyb us.	What is the name of the TV scrambling system BSkyB uses?.
videoguard owned.	Who is VideoGuard owned by?.
parent company nd.	Who is the parent company of NDS?.
design authority digital satellite receiver capable using service.	Who has design authority over all of the digital satellite receivers that are capable of using their service?.
name brand personal video recorder bskyb offer.	What is the name brand of the personal video recorder that BSkyB offers?.
name tv scrambling system bskyb use.	What is the name of the TV scrambling system BSkyB couldn't use?.
whose digital receiver built one manufacturer.	Whose digital receivers are only built by one manufacturer?.
available stand-alone dvb cam.	What is available as stand-alone DVB CAMs?.
company never involved nd.	What company was never involved with NDS?.
name brand video recorder bskyb never sold.	What is the name brand of the video recorder that BSkyB never sold?.
year bskyb virgin medium dispute carriage sky channel cable tv.	What year did BSkyB and Virgin Media have a dispute over the carriage of Sky Channels on cable TV?.
channel removed network march 2007.	What channels were removed from the network in March of 2007?.
virgin medium claim bskyb resulted virgin carrying channel anymore.	What did Virgin Media claim BSkyB did that resulted Virgin not carrying the channels anymore?.
additional srevice bskyb offer besides hd channel claimed offered "substantially value".	What additional srevice did BSkyB offer besides HD channels that they claimed offered "substantially more value"?.
additional srevice bskyb offer besides video demand claimed offered "substantially value".	What additional srevice did BSkyB offer besides Video on Demand that they claimed offered "substantially more value"?.
year bskyb virgin medium agreement carriage sky channel cable tv.	What year did BSkyB and Virgin Media have an agreement over the carriage of Sky Channels on cable TV?.
channel always available network.	What channels were always available on the network?.
additional service bskyb offer besides hd channel claimed offered value.	What additional service did BSkyB offer besides HD channels that they claimed offered no value?.
claim bskyb agree.	What claim did BSkyB agree with?.
basic channel first introduced bskyb.	When were basic channels first introduced by BSkyB?.
english high court find microsoft's use term "skydrive" infringed sky's right.	when did the English High court find Microsoft's use of the term "SkyDrive" infringed on Sky's right?.
year bskyb microsoft announce settlement.	What year did BSkyB and Microsoft announce their settlement?.
microsoft announce would rename sky drive.	What did Microsoft announce that it would rename Sky Drive to?.
microsoft announce would rename sky drive pro.	What did Microsoft announce that it would rename Sky Drive Pro to?.
kind service skydrive service.	What kind of service is the SkyDrive Service?.
english high court justice find microsoft’s use term "skydrive" infringe sky’s right "sky" trademark.	When did the English High Court of Justice find that Microsoft’s use of the term "SkyDrive" did not infringe on Sky’s right to the "Sky" trademark?.
microsoft decide appeal ruling.	When did Microsoft decide to appeal the ruling?.
microsoft announce would rename onedrive.	What did Microsoft announce that it would rename OneDrive to?.
microsoft announce would rename onedrive business.	What did Microsoft announce that it would rename OneDrive for Business to?.
microsoft announce onedrive soon become skydrive.	When did Microsoft announce OneDrive will soon become SkyDrive?.
chief executive officer service began.	Who was the chief executive officer when the service began?.
who's satellite would new free-to-air channel broadcast.	Who's satellites would the new free-to-air channels be broadcast from?.
bskyb end analogue service.	When did BSkyB end their analogue service?.
platform caused bskyb end analogue service.	What platform caused BSkyB to end their analogue service?.
many household bskyb service 1994.	How many households had BSkyB service in 1994?.
platform helped bskyb avoid ending analogue service.	What platform helped BSkyB to avoid ending their analogue service?.
whose satellite never broadcast free-to-air.	Whose satellites were never broadcast as free-to-air?.
many subscriber lost within two month launch bskyb.	How many subscribers were lost within two months of launch from BSkyB?.
commended operation front select committee national heritage.	Who commended the operations in front of the Select Committee on National Heritage?.
company never expanded platform.	Which company never expanded their platform?.
sky uk limited formerly known name.	Sky UK Limited is formerly known by what name?.
kind company sky uk limited.	What kind of company is Sky UK Limited?.
many customer sky uk limited pay-tv broadcaster 2015.	How many customers does Sky UK Limited have as a pay-TV broadcaster as of 2015?.
digital tv service took sky uk limited's popular spot.	what other digital TV service took Sky UK Limited's most popular spot?.
sky uk limited known name.	Sky UK Limited is now known by what name?.
sky uk limited never involved.	What has Sky UK Limited never been involved with?.
many customer sky uk limited lose pay-tv broadcaster 2015.	How many customers did Sky UK Limited lose as a pay-TV broadcaster as of 2015?.
uk's least popular tv service 2015.	What was the UK's least popular TV service in 2015?.
headquarters relocate.	Where did the headquarters relocate from?.
name sky q's broadband router.	What is the name of Sky Q's broadband router?.
sky q mini set top box able connect.	What are the Sky Q mini set top boxes able to connect to?.
connecting different sky q box enable.	What does connecting different Sky Q boxes enable them to do?.
sky going introduce uhd broadcast.	When is Sky going to introduce UHD broadcasts?.
new sky q product going available.	When are the new Sky Q products going to be available?.
name sky q's dial-up router.	What is the name of Sky Q's dial-up router?.
sky q mini set top box never able connect.	What are the Sky Q mini set top boxes never able to connect to?.
disconnecting different sky q box enable.	What does disconnecting different Sky Q boxes enable them to do?.
set top box longer display uhd broadcast.	What set top box can no longer display UHD broadcasts?.
bskyb's standard definition broadcast compliant.	What are BSkyB's standard definition broadcasts compliant with?.
sky movie sky box office also include optional soundtrack.	Sky Movies and Sky Box office also include what optional soundtracks?.
sky+ hd material broadcast using.	What is Sky+ HD material broadcast using?.
proprietary system sky+hd us.	What is the proprietary system that Sky+HD uses?.
hd material use standard.	What does most of the HD material use as a standard?.
box required view mpeg-3.	What box is required to view MPEG-3?.
proprietary system sky+hd can't use.	What is the proprietary system that Sky+HD can't use?.
channel never used looping video stream.	What channel never used looping video streams?.
kind soundtrack mandatory sky movie sky box office channel.	What kind of soundtracks are mandatory with the Sky Movies and Sky Box Office channels?.
sky digital launched.	When was Sky Digital launched?.
satellite used sky digital launched.	What satellite was used when Sky digital was launched?.
satellite enabled sky digital launch new digital service.	What satellite enabled Sky Digital to launch an all new digital service?.
many television radio channel could new digital service carry.	How many television and radio channels could the new digital service carry?.
position satellite allowed sky broadcast channel almost elclusively united kingdom.	What is the position of the satellite that allowed sky to broadcast channels almost elclusively for the United Kingdom?.
service used astra 2a 1995.	What service used Astra 2A in 1995?.
satellite made impossible sky digital launch new digital service.	What satellite made it impossible for Sky Digital to launch an all new digital service?.
many television radio channel digital service get rid.	How many television and radio channels did the digital service get rid of?.
satellite launched.	When was the only satellite launched?.
bskyb launch hdtv service.	When did BSkyB launch it's HDTV service?.
many people registered receive hd service prior launch.	How many people were registered to receive the HD service prior to launch?.
name set top box manufacturer bskyb issue.	What was the name of the set top box manufacturer that BSkyB was having issues with?.
number customer bbc reported yet receive service due failed delivery.	What was the number of customers that the BBC  reported had yet to receive the service due to failed deliveries?.
total number home sky announced sky+hd march 2012.	What was the total number of homes Sky announced that had Sky+HD in March of 2012?.
bskyb fail launching hdtv service.	When did BSkyB fail launching it's HDTV service?.
manufacturer never supply issue dealing bskyb.	Which manufacturer never had supply issues when dealing with BSkyB?.
many people never registered receive hd service prior launch.	How many people never registered to receive the HD service prior to launch?.
reported 17,000 customer received service due failed delivery.	Who reported that 17,000 customers received the service due to failed deliveries?.
sky announce total number home sky+hd 3,222,000.	When did Sky announce the total number of homes with Sky+HD was 3,222,000?.
bskyb announce intention replace free-to-air digital channel.	When did BSkyB announce it's intention to replace it's free-to-air digital channels?.
setanta sport say would launch subscription service.	When did Setanta Sports say it would launch as a subscription service?.
platform sentanta sport planning launching.	What platform was Sentanta Sports planning on launching on?.
ntl's service rebranded.	What were NTL's services rebranded as?.
bskyb's sport portfolio include.	What does BSkyB's sport portfolio include?.
bskyb announce intention improve free-to-air digital channel.	When did BSkyB announce it's intention to improve it's free-to-air digital channels?.
setanta sport say would launch free service digital terrestrial platform.	When did Setanta Sports say it would launch as a free service on the digital terrestrial platform?.
platform sentanta sport planning avoid launching.	What platform was Sentanta Sports planning to avoid launching on?.
virgin medium rebranded.	What was Virgin Media rebranded as?.
channel lost advertising revenue due plan.	What channel lost advertising revenue due to their plans?.
free-to-air encrypted broadcast known.	What are free-to-air encrypted broadcasts known as?.
encrypted broadcast require view.	What do some encrypted broadcasts require to view?.
receiver equipped view encrypted content.	What does a receiver have to be equipped with to view encrypted content?.
universal band digital recievers receive free air channel.	What is the universal band that digital recievers will receive free to air channels on?.
service videoguard uk equipped receiver dedicated decrypt.	What service is a VideoGuard UK equipped receiver dedicated to decrypt?.
encrypted broadcast never require.	What do encrypted broadcasts never require?.
receiver equipped view unencrypted content.	What does a receiver have to be equipped with to view unencrypted content?.
localized band digital receiver receive air channel.	What is the localized band that digital receivers will receive to air channels on?.
service videoguard uk equipped receiver never able decrypt.	What service is a VideoGuard UK equipped receiver never able to decrypt?.
band fitted middle satellite dish.	What band is fitted in the middle of the satellite dish?.
talk held braodcast right primier league five year period 1992 season.	When were the talks held for braodcast right to the Primier league for a five year period from the 1992 season?.
current right holder primer league.	Who were the current rights holders for the Primer League?.
itv increase yearly offer control right broadcast primer league.	What did ITV increase their yearly offer for control of the rights to broadcast the Primer League to?.
given highlight match.	Who was given the highlights of most of the matches?.
much bskyb going pay primier league right.	How much was BSkyB going to pay for the Primier League rights?.
company concerned retaining new right.	What company was not concerned about retaining new rights?.
much bskyb pay give right premier league.	How much did BSkyB pay to give up their rights for Premier League?.
never saw highlight match.	 Who never saw highlights of most of the matches?.
never right holder premier league.	Who were never rights holders for the Premier League?.
bskyb operating license.	Who does BSkyB have an operating license from?.
fee range accessing bskyb's epg.	what is the fee range for accessing BSkyB's EPG?.
bskyb veto presence channel epg.	Can BSkyB veto the presence of channels on their EPG?.
bskyb carry control channel content.	Does BSkyB carry any control over a channels content?.
bskyb carry control picture quality channel.	Does BSkyB carry any control over the picture quality of a channel?.
took away operating license bskyb.	Who took away the operating license from BSkyB?.
company veto presence channel epg.	What company has veto over the presence of channels on their EPG?.
bskyb veto presence channel.	What can BSkyB veto the presence of channels on?.
service require fee use.	What service doesn't require a fee to use?.
bskyb's digital service launched.	When was BSkyB's digital service launched?.
name bskyb's digital service launched.	What was the name of BSkyB's digital service launched under?.
bskyb name interactive service.	What did BSkyB name their interactive service?.
bskyb compete initially.	Who did BSkyB compete with initially?.
within 30 day many digiboxes sold.	Within the 30 days how many digiboxes had been sold?.
bskyb's digital service unofficially launched.	When was BSkyB's digital service unofficially launched?.
company supported bskyb.	What company supported BSkyB the most?.
within 30 day many digiboxes discarded.	Within 30 days how many digiboxes had been discarded?.
bskyb decide stop giving away free digiboxes.	When did BSkyB decide to stop giving away free digiboxes?.
virgin medium rebranded ntl telewest.	When was virgin media rebranded from NTL Telewest?.
ntl telewest re-branded 2007.	what was NTL Telewest re-branded to in 2007?.
virgin medium concentrate instead offering linear channel.	What did Virgin Media concentrate on instead of offering linear channels?.
one linear hd channel virgin medium carried november 2006 july 2009.	What was the one linear HD channel Virgin Media carried from November 2006 to July 2009?.
name hd channel virgin medium could carry future.	what was the name of the other HD channel Virgin media could carry in the future?.
ntl telewest rebranded virgin medium.	When was NTL Telewest rebranded from Virgin Media?.
virgin medium ignore offering linear channel.	What did Virgin Media ignore while offering linear channels?.
one linear sd channel virgin medium carried november 2006 july 2009.	What was the one linear SD channel Virgin Media carried from November 2006 to July 2009?.
channel never hd version.	What channel never had an HD version?.
many home bskyb's direct-to-home satellite service available 2010.	How many homes had BSkyB's direct-to-home satellite service available to them in 2010?.
large audience bskyb said could reach.	How large was the audience BSkyB said they could reach?.
bskyb first announce target goal.	When did BSkyB first announce their target goal?.
target percentage household bskyb wanted reach.	What was the target percentage of households BSkyB wanted to reach?.
happening subscriber number area europe.	What was happening to subscriber numbers in other areas of europe?.
many home bskyb's direct-to-home satellite service unavailable 2010.	How many homes had BSkyB's direct-to-home satellite service unavailable to them in 2010?.
small audience bskyb said reach.	How small was the audience BSkyB said they couldn't reach?.
percentage household bskyb never reached.	What was the percentage of households BSkyB never reached?.
free tv platform popular europe time.	What free TV platform was most popular in Europe at this time?.
alec shelbrooke propose payment benefit made.	What did Alec Shelbrooke propose payments of benefits to be made on?.
could supplemental nutrition assistance program purchase.	What could the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program purchase?.
uk parliment hear subscription bskyb.	what did the UK parliment hear that a subscription to BSkyB was?.
uk government benefit agenchy checking 2012.	What was the UK governments benefits agenchy checking in 2012?.
benefit agency think sport channel tv bill meant.	What did the benefits agency think sports channels on a TV bill meant?.
alec shelbrooke propose payment benefit never made.	What did Alec Shelbrooke propose payments of benefits never be made on?.
could supplemental nutrition assistance program never sell.	What could the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program never sell?.
uk parliment decide subscription bskyb.	What did the UK parliment decide that a subscription to BSkyB was?.
benefit agency think sport channel tv bill ignored.	What did the benefits agency think sports channels on a TV bill ignored?.
uk government benefit agency destroying 2012.	What was the UK governments benefits agency destroying in 2012?.
annual carriage fee channel.	What were the annual carriage fees for the channels?.
new deal include video demand high definition.	Does the new deal include Video on demand and High Definition?.
company agreed terminate high court proceeding bskyb.	What company agreed to terminate high court proceedings with BSkyB?.
company agreed terminate high court proceeding virgin medium.	What company agreed to terminate high court proceedings with Virgin Media?.
high court proceeding held.	What were high court proceedings being held about?.
weekly carriage fee channel.	What were the weekly carriage fees for the channels?.
company agree terminate high court proceeding bskyb.	What company did not agree to terminate high court proceedings with BSkyB?.
local court proceeding held.	What were local court proceedings being held about?.
company never agreed terminate court proceeding.	Which companies never agreed to terminate their court proceedings against each other?.
company still offer video demand hd.	Which company still offers Video On Demand and HD?.
kind economy victoria.	What kind of economy does Victoria have?.
according gross state product victoria rank australia.	Where according to gross state product does Victoria rank in Australia?.
rank gps per caput set victoria.	At what rank does GPS per capita set Victoria?.
city victoria called sporting capital australia.	What city in Victoria is called the sporting capital of Australia?.
largest stadium australia.	What is the largest stadium in Australia?.
kind education victoria.	What kind of education does Victoria have?.
according net domestic product victoria rank australia.	Where according to net domestic product does Victoria rank in Australia?.
rank gps service victoria.	At what rank is GPS service in Victoria?.
city victoria called cricket ground australia.	What city in Victoria is called the cricket ground of Australia?.
many public university melbourne.	How many public universities are in Melbourne?.
asian influence strongest victoria.	Where is the Asian influence strongest in Victoria?.
lambing flat riot.	Where were the Lambing Flat riots?.
1857 riot.	Where was the 1857 riot?.
many miner died typhoid outbreak 1854.	How many miners died in the typhoid outbreak of 1854?.
condition miner gold field victoria.	What were the conditions for miners in the gold fields in Victoria?.
asian gold miner strongest victoria.	Where is the Asian gold miners strongest in Victoria?.
pro-chinese riot.	Where were the pro-Chinese riots?.
1857 gold rush.	Where was the 1857 gold rush?.
many miner died racism violence 1854.	How many miners died from racism violence in 1854?.
condition miner ireland china.	What were the conditions for miners in Ireland and China?.
kind representational system victorian legislative council.	What kind of representational system does the Victorian Legislative Council have?.
many electorate state victoria.	How many electorates does the State of Victoria have?.
many representative electorate.	How many representatives does each electorate have?.
term office house member.	What is the term of office for each house member?.
often election held victorian parliament.	How often are elections held for the Victorian Parliament?.
many electorate legislative council.	How many electorates does the Legislative Council have?.
many representative state.	How many representatives does each state have?.
often election held upper house member.	How often are elections held by upper house members?.
month victorian parliament register voter.	In what month does the Victorian Parliament register voters?.
political party strongest melbourne's working class suburb.	What political party is strongest in Melbourne's working class suburbs?.
party strongest melbourne's affluent area.	What party is strongest in Melbourne's affluent areas?.
party strongest victoria's northwestern eastern region.	Which party is strongest in Victoria's northwestern and eastern regions?.
party rule melbourne's inner region.	What party rules in Melbourne's inner regions?.
party favored bedigo geelong.	What party is favored in Bedigo and Geelong?.
political party strongest melbourne's poor regional area.	What political party is strongest in Melbourne's poor regional areas?.
party strongest melbourne's financial district.	What party is strongest in Melbourne's financial district?.
party strongest victoria's lower house.	Which party is strongest in Victoria's lower house?.
party formed 2014.	What party formed in 2014?.
party favored northern southern victoria.	What party is favored in Northern and Southern Victoria?.
percentage victorian christian.	What percentage of Victorians are Christian?.
many victorian catholic.	How many Victorians are Catholic?.
victoria's largest non-christian religion.	What is Victoria's largest non-Christian religion?.
many victorian buddhist.	How many Victorians are Buddhist?.
many victorian non-religious.	How many Victorians are non-religious?.
percentage victorian christian scientist.	What percentage of Victorians are Christian Scientists?.
many victorian live near moneatery.	How many Victorians are live near a moneatery?.
religion lower class victoria.	What religion are most of the lower class in Victoria?.
many victorian buddha statue.	How many Victorians have a Buddha statue?.
many victorian muslim.	How many Victorians are Muslim?.
australia victoria located.	Where in Australia is Victoria located?.
victoria rank population density.	How does Victoria rank as to population density?.
populous victoria compared australian state.	How populous is Victoria compared to other Australian states?.
city capital victoria.	What city is the capital of Victoria?.
compared australian cities, size melbourne.	Compared to other Australian cities, what is the size of Melbourne?.
bass straight victoria located.	Where in Bass Straight is Victoria located?.
melbourne rank population.	How does Melbourne rank as to population?.
populous melbourne compared australian state.	How populous is Melbourne compared to other Australian states?.
city capital australia.	What city is the capital of Australia?.
compared american cities, size melbourne.	Compared to other American cities, what is the size of Melbourne?.
term original aboriginal people victoria.	What is the term for the original Aboriginal people of Victoria?.
great britain claim australia.	When did Great Britain claim Australia? .
victoria first set located australia.	Where was Victoria first set to be located in Australia?.
first settlement victoria.	Where was the first settlement in Victoria?.
victoria first settled.	When was Victoria first settled?.
term original aboriginal people canberra.	What is the term for the original Aboriginal people of Canberra?.
great britain sell australia.	When did Great Britain sell Australia?.
koori first set located australia.	Where were the Koori first set to be located in Australia?.
first settlement canberra.	Where was the first settlement in Canberra?.
first parliament house built victoria.	When was the first Parliament House built in Victoria?.
much victorian farmland farmed grain.	How much Victorian farmland is farmed in grains?.
percentage farmland grows wheat.	What percentage of farmland grows wheat?.
much victoria's farmland grows hay.	How much of Victoria's farmland grows hay?.
much victoria produce australian pear.	How much does Victoria produce in Australian pears?.
many tonne tomato victoria produce.	How many tonnes of tomatoes does Victoria produce?.
much victorian farmland farmed rye grass.	How much Victorian farmland is farmed in rye grass?.
percentage farmland grows bean.	What percentage of farmland grows beans?.
much victoria's farmland sold domestically.	How much of Victoria's farmland is sold domestically?.
much victoria produced australian peach.	How much of Victoria produced Australian peaches?.
many tonne potato victoria produce.	How many tonnes of potatoes does Victoria produce?.
victoria enact constitution.	When did Victoria enact its constitution?.
victoria's constitution based.	On what is Victoria's constitution based ?.
group amend victorian constitution.	What group can amend the Victorian constitution?.
exception constitution require special consideration amend.	What are the exceptions in the constitution  that require special considerations to amend?.
document formed parliament victoria.	What document formed the Parliament of Victoria?.
victoria approve referendum.	When did Victoria approve a referendum?.
parliament victoria based.	On what is the Parliament of Victoria based?.
group amend united kingdom parliament.	What group can amend the United Kingdom Parliament?.
exception constitution fall state responsibility.	What are the exceptions in the constitutions that fall under state responsibility?.
document formed parliament "entrenched" provision.	What document formed the Parliament of "entrenched" provisions?.
weather type mallee upper wimmera.	What is the weather type of Mallee and upper Wimmera?.
average temperature exceed summer.	What does the average temperatures exceed in the summer?.
cold region victoria get winner.	How cold does this region of Victoria get in the winner?.
victoria's highest monthly temperature.	What is Victoria's highest monthly temperature?.
heatwave hopetoun recorded highest temperature.	When was the heatwave in which Hopetoun recorded its highest temperature?.
weather type hopetoun melbourne.	What is the weather type of Hopetoun and Melbourne?.
median temperature winter.	What is the median temperature in the winter?.
median temperature summer.	What is the median temperature in the summer?.
temperature hopetoun average feburary.	What is temperature does Hopetoun average in Feburary?.
heatwave wimmera recorded highest temperature.	When was the heatwave in which Wimmera recorded its highest temperature?.
public school victoria.	What are public schools in Victoria?.
organization run public school victoria.	What organization runs the public schools in Victoria? .
since student pay tuition, pay schooling victoria.	Since students do not pay tuition, what do they have to pay for schooling in Victoria?.
church run private school victoria.	What church runs some private schools in Victoria?.
government set standard school meet.	What government set standards do all schools have to meet?.
public bank victoria.	What are public banks in Victoria?.
organization run waste management victoria.	What organization runs the waste management in Victoria?.
covered state addition tuition.	What is covered by the state in addition to tuition?.
church run public school victoria.	What church runs public schools in Victoria?.
government set standard select school meet.	What government set standards do only select schools have to meet?.
type manufacturing plant victoria soon losing.	What type of manufacturing plant is Victoria soon losing?.
toyota said close victoria plant.	When has Toyota said it will close its Victoria plant?.
holden announce close victoria plant.	When did Holden announce that it will close its Victoria plant?.
ford's manufacturing plant close.	When will Ford's manufacturing plants close?.
brand car manufactured broadmeadows.	What brand of car is manufactured in Broadmeadows?.
type manufacturing plant victoria getting soon.	What type of manufacturing plant is Victoria getting soon?.
toyota said change victoria plant plane factory.	When has Toyota said it will change its Victoria plant into a plane factory?.
holden announce open victoria plant.	When did Holden announce that it will open its Victoria plant?.
ford start building electric car.	When will Ford start building electric cars?.
brand tractor manufactured broadmeadows.	What brand of tractor is manufactured in Broadmeadows?.
high victoria's alpine region.	How high are Victoria's alpine regions?.
highest peak victoria.	What is the highest peak in Victoria?.
high victoria's mount bogong.	How high is Victoria's Mount Bogong?.
type topological system found number victoria.	What type of topological systems are found in numbers in Victoria?.
victoria state bird.	What is the Victoria state bird?.
high victoria's river region.	How high are Victoria's river regions?.
snowiest peak victoria.	What is the snowiest peak in Victoria?.
high victoria's mount gippsland.	How high is Victoria's Mount Gippsland? .
victoria state fish.	What is the Victoria state fish?.
victoria state color.	What is the Victoria state color?.
coldest section victoria.	Where is the coldest section of Victoria?.
mountain system victorian alp part.	Of what mountain system are the Victorian Alps a part?.
direction mountain system extend.	In what direction does the mountain system extend?.
temperature highest portion mountain range winter.	What is the temperature in the highest portion of the mountain range in winter?.
lowest recorded temperature victoria.	What is the lowest recorded temperature in Victoria?.
highest section victoria.	Where is the highest section of Victoria?.
mountain system omeo alp part.	Of what mountain system are the Omeo Alps a part?.
direction river system extend.	In what direction does the river system extend?.
temperature valley mountain range winter.	What is the temperature in the valley of the mountain range in winter?.
lowest recorded wind chill victoria.	What is the lowest recorded wind chill in Victoria?.
owns rail line victoria.	Who owns the rail lines in Victoria?.
rail line operates melbourne.	Which rail line operates in Melbourne?.
entity owns v/line.	What entity owns V/Line?.
type rail line pacific national.	What type of rail line is Pacific National?.
kind rail system metro train melbourne.	What kind of rail system is Metro Trains Melbourne?.
owns rail car victoria.	Who owns the rail cars in Victoria?.
rail line operates around island.	Which rail line operates Around the island?.
entity sponsored v/line olympics.	What entity is sponsored by V/Line in the Olympics?.
operator transport cargo melbourne.	What operator transports cargo in Melbourne?.
operator mainland australia.	What operator is in mainland Australia?.
many seat victoria australian house representative.	How many seats does Victoria have in the Australian House of Representatives?.
many seat victoria senate.	How many seats does Victoria have in the Senate?.
lower house victorian parliament called.	What is the lower house of the Victorian parliament called?.
upper house parliament victoria called.	What is the upper house of the Parliament of Victoria called?.
current governor victoria.	Who is the current Governor of Victoria?.
many seat australia house representative.	How many seats does Australia have in the House of Representatives?.
many seat australia senate.	How many seats does Australia have in the Senate?.
lower level australian house representative called.	What is the lower level of a the Australian House of Representatives called?.
upper level australian house representative called.	What is the upper level of the Australian House of Representatives called?.
current president victoria.	Who is the current President of Victoria?.
date victoria declared independent new south wale.	On what date was Victoria declared independent from New South Wales?.
gold found near ballarat.	When was gold found near Ballarat?.
finding gold victoria cause.	What did the finding of gold in Victoria cause?.
much population victoria increase ten year discovery gold.	How much did the population of Victoria increase in ten years after the discovery of gold?.
much gold victoria produce year 1851-1860.	How much gold did Victoria produce in the years of 1851-1860?.
writ issued election new south wale president.	When were writs issued for the election of the New South Wales president?.
gold found near birmingham.	When was gold found near Birmingham?.
new railroad victoria trigger.	What did the new railroad in Victoria trigger?.
much population new south wale increase ten year discovery gold.	How much did the population New South Wales increase in ten years after the discovery of gold?.
much gold victoria produce 1860.	How much gold did Victoria produce in 1860?.
august 2010 many public school victoria.	By August 2010 how many public schools did Victoria have?.
many catholic school victoria.	How many Catholic schools were in Victoria?.
many student enrolled public school victoria.	How many students were enrolled in public schools in Victoria?.
many full time teacher victoria.	How many full time teachers does Victoria have?.
percentage private school student go catholic school.	What percentage of private school students go to Catholic schools?.
august 2010 many trade school victoria.	By August 2010 how many trade schools did Victoria have?.
many catholic school got government assistance.	How many Catholic schools got government assistance?.
many student enrolled public school outside victoria.	How many students were enrolled in public schools outside Victoria?.
many full time janitor victoria.	How many full time janitors does Victoria have?.
percentage private school student go lutheran school.	What percentage of private school students go to Lutheran schools?.
state australia center dairy farming.	What state in Australia is the center of dairy farming?.
many dairy cow australia.	How many dairy cows are there in Australia?.
percentage australia's dairy cattle found victoria.	What percentage of Australia's dairy cattle are found in Victoria?.
much australia's milk produced victoria.	How much of Australia's milk is produced in Victoria?.
abalone lobster caught victorian water shipped.	To where is most of the abalone and lobster caught in Victorian waters shipped?.
state australia invented dairy farming.	What state in Australia invented dairy farming?.
many spotted dairy cow australia.	How many spotted dairy cows are there in Australia?.
percentage australia's dairy farm found victoria.	What percentage of Australia's dairy farms are found in Victoria?.
percentage australia's veal come victoria.	What percentage of Australia's veal is comes from Victoria?.
milk beef victoria exported.	To where is most of the milk and beef from Victoria exported to?.
gauge victorian rail line.	What is the gauge of the Victorian rail lines?.
gauge line changed west victoria.	To what gauge have some lines been changed in the west of Victoria?.
gauge rail line two tourist line use.	What gauge of rail lines do two tourist lines use?.
narrow gauge rail line built victoria.	Where were the narrow gauge rail lines built in Victoria?.
many narrow gauge rail line previously government owned.	How many narrow gauge rail lines were previously government owned?.
gauge victorian power line.	What is the gauge of the Victorian power lines?.
gauge line changed north victoria.	To what gauge have some lines been changed north of Victoria?.
gauge rail line used small fright operator.	What gauge of rail lines are used in small fright operators?.
narrow gauge rail line demolished victoria.	Where were the narrow gauge rail lines demolished in Victoria?.
many narrow gauge rail line built 1900.	How many narrow gauge rail lines were built before 1900?.
colony new south wale founded.	When was the colony of New South Wales founded?.
name eastern half colony 1788.	What was the name of the eastern half of the colony of 1788?.
name given western half colony.	What name was given to the western half of the colony?.
location colonial government administered new colony.	Where was the location of the colonial government that administered the new colony?.
captain daniel woodriff visit new south wale.	When did Captain Daniel Woodriff visit New South Wales?.
name given western half wale.	What name was given to the western half of Wales?.
location administration calcutta.	Where was the location of the administration of Calcutta?.
feared holland might establish settlement.	Who feared that Holland might establish their own settlement?.
armed protest ballarat mining tax.	When was there a armed protest at Ballarat about mining taxes?.
incident tax ballarat called.	What was the incident over taxes at Ballarat called?.
armed group stopped uprising ballarat.	What armed group stopped the uprising at Ballarat?.
colonial authority reduce ballarat revolt.	What did colonial authorities  reduce because of the Ballarat revolt?.
passage act gave victoria government.	The passage of what act gave Victoria its own government?.
armed protest eureka stockade mining tax.	When was there a armed protest at Eureka Stockade about mining taxes?.
armed group stopped colonial authority ballarat.	What armed group stopped the colonial authorities at Ballarat?.
colonial authority reduce colony victoria act 1855.	What did colonial authorities reduce because of the Colony of Victoria Act of 1855?.
leader british rebellion become.	What did some leaders of the British rebellion become?.
protested parliament tax.	Who protested against Parliament taxes?.
premier victoria need lead legislative assembly.	What does the Premier of Victoria need to lead in the Legislative Assembly? .
set legislative agenda victoria.	Who sets the legislative agenda in Victoria?.
victorian cabinet.	Who can be in the Victorian cabinet?.
current premier victoria.	Who is the current Premier of Victoria?.
victorian cabinet member chosen.	How are Victorian cabinet members chosen?.
secretary need lead legislative assembly.	What does the secretary need to lead in the Legislative Assembly?.
set judicial agenda victoria.	Who sets the judicial agenda in Victoria?.
victorian law enforcement.	Who can be in the Victorian law enforcement?.
first premier victoria.	Who is the first Premier of Victoria?.
victorian education member chosen.	How are Victorian education members chosen?.
much gross agricultural product increase 2003-04.	How much did the gross agricultural product increase from 2003-04?.
percentage increase agricultural product 2003-04.	What percentage was the increase of agricultural products in 2003-04?.
many farm victoria.	How many farms are there in Victoria?.
much land farm use victoria.	How much land do farms use in Victoria?.
much percentage victoria's land taken farm.	How much percentage of Victoria's land is taken up by farms?.
much gross agricultural product increase since 2004.	How much did the gross agricultural product increase since 2004?.
percentage increase agricultural product since 2004.	What percentage was the increase of agricultural products since 2004?.
many farm west melbourne.	How many farms are there west of Melbourne?.
much land farm crop rotate year victoria.	How much land do farms crop rotate each year in Victoria?.
much percentage victoria's land taken consumable crop.	How much percentage of Victoria's land is taken up by consumable crops?.
part event victoria's economy play.	What part do events in Victoria's economy  play? .
besides cultural events, tourist attraction victoria.	Besides cultural events, what other tourist attraction does Victoria have?.
tourist attraction focused victoria.	On where are most tourist attractions focused in Victoria?.
tourist event happen victoria outside melbourne.	Where do other tourist events happen in Victoria outside of Melbourne?.
event held bell beach victoria.	What event is held at Bells Beach in Victoria?.
part fishing play victoria's economy play.	What part does fishing play in Victoria's economy play?.
besides cultural events, television program victoria.	Besides cultural events, what other television programs does Victoria have?.
best italian victoria.	Where is the best Italian in Victoria?.
religious experience happen victoria outside melbourne.	Where do other religious experiences happen in Victoria outside of Melbourne?.
event held port sunshine victoria.	What event is held at Port Sunshine in Victoria?.
france's huguenot population largely centered.	Where was France's Huguenot population largely centered?.
proportion huguenot catholic peak.	What was the proportion of Huguenots to Catholics at their peak?.
war religion fought.	When were the Wars of Religion fought?.
treaty ended war religion.	What treaty ended the Wars of Religion?.
agreement.	What did this agreement do?.
huguenot movement start.	When did the Huguenot movement start?.
french catholic concentrated france.	Where were French Catholics concentrated in France?.
initially started war religion.	Who initially started the Wars of Religion?.
many huguenot 1598.	How many Huguenots were there in 1598?.
many french catholic 1598.	How many French Catholics were there in 1598?.
term huguenot originally meant confer.	The term Huguenot was originally meant to confer?.
term may related politician switzerland.	The term may be related to what politician from Switzerland?.
swiss city center calvinist movement.	What Swiss city was the center of the Calvinist movement?.
name given plot usurp power french house guise.	What name was given to the plot to usurp power from the French House of Guise?.
attempt take place.	When did this attempt take place?.
year swiss politician besancon hugues born.	In what year was Swiss politician Besancon Hugues born?.
huisgenoten translate french.	What does Huisgenoten translate to in French?.
city john calvin born.	Which city was John Calvin born in?.
religion john calvin.	What religion was John Calvin?.
year house guise gain influence.	In what year did the House of Guise gain influence?.
helped spread protestantism france.	What helped spread Protestantism in France?.
first french language bible appear.	When did the first French language bible appear?.
translated version scripture.	Who translated this version of the scriptures?.
illustrated, paraphrased version appeared.	An illustrated, paraphrased version of this appeared when?.
jean de rely's illustrated french-language scripture first published city.	Jean De Rely's illustrated French-language scriptures were first published in what city?.
year protestant reformation arrive france.	In what year did the Protestant Reformation arrive in France?.
country protestant reformation get start.	In what country did the Protestant Reformation get its start?.
year reformed church france get established.	In what year did the Reformed church of France get established?.
roman catholic priest guyard de moulin.	Where was the Roman Catholic Priest Guyard de Moulin from?.
jean de rely.	Where was Jean de Rely from?.
town granted huguenot 1598 collectively called.	What were the towns granted to the Huguenots in 1598 collectively called?.
important city town.	What was the most important of these cities or towns?.
france laid siege montpellier year.	France laid siege to Montpellier in what year?.
proclamation officially ended limited huguenot autonomy.	What proclamation officially ended limited Huguenot autonomy?.
proclamation issued.	When was this proclamation issued?.
result montpellier edict ale 1629.	What was the result in Montpellier of the Edict of Ales in 1629?.
"villes de surete" translate english.	What does "villes de surete" translate to in English?.
many mile montpellier paris.	How many miles is Montpellier from Paris?.
year protestant rule montpellier effectively collapse.	In what year did Protestant rule in Montpellier effectively collapse?.
year royal citadel built catholic montpellier.	In what year was a royal citadel built by Catholics in Montpellier?.
first huguenot colonist settle.	Where did the first Huguenot colonists settle?.
modern city located original huguenot colony.	What modern city is located on the original Huguenot colony?.
first huguenot arrive cape good hope.	Who was the first Huguenot to arrive at the Cape of Good Hope?.
trading company helped settle huguenot near cape.	What trading company helped settle Huguenots near the Cape?.
number new huguenot colonist declined year.	The number of new Huguenot colonists declined after what year?.
year francois villion born.	In what year was Francois Villion born?.
maria de la quellerie's father name.	What was Maria de la Quellerie's fathers name?.
many ship hugeunot's aboard sailed cape good hope 1671.	How many ships with Hugeunot's aboard had sailed to Cape of Good Hope in 1671?.
city jan van riebeeck.	What city was Jan van Riebeeck from?.
jan van riebeeck's father living.	What did Jan van Riebeeck's father do for a living?.
huguenot colonize north america.	When did Huguenots colonize in North America?.
led north american huguenot colonial expedition.	Who led the North American Huguenot colonial expedition?.
name first huguenot church new world.	What was the name of the first Huguenot church in the New World?.
name first huguenot church known today.	By what name is that first Huguenot church known today?.
huguenot first european live modern new york borough.	The Huguenots were the first Europeans to live in what modern New York borough?.
part u new france.	In what part of the now US was New France?.
year boschwick neighborhood officially change name bushwick.	In what year did the Boschwick neighborhood officially change its name to Bushwick?.
jesse de forest sale arrive north america.	Where did Jesse de Forest sale from to arrive in North America?.
besides nova scotia another british colony north america.	Besides Nova Scotia what was another British colony in North America?.
year new netherland split new york new jersey.	In what year did New Netherland split into New York and New Jersey?.
southern city huguenot settle near.	What southern city did the Huguenots settle near?.
south carolina huguenot nobility settle.	Where in South Carolina did Huguenot nobility settle?.
huguenot secure right land barony.	When did the Huguenots secure the right to own land in the Baronies?.
huguenot south carolina purchase land.	From whom did the Huguenots in South Carolina purchase land from?.
charleston settler elie prioleau french town.	Charleston settler Elie Prioleau was from what French town?.
french city alexander pepin originally.	What French city was Alexander Pepin originally from?.
english city edmund bellinger.	What English city was Edmund Bellinger from?.
year rev. elie prioleau become pastor first huguenot church charleston, south carolina.	In what year did Rev. Elie Prioleau become the pastor of the first Huguenot church in Charleston, South Carolina?.
year edmund bohun humphrey de bohun line french royalty move north america.	In what year did Edmund Bohun of the Humphrey de Bohun line of French royalty move to North America?.
year charleston, north carolina founded.	In what year was Charleston, North Carolina founded?.
louis xiv's main rival.	Who was Louis XIV's main rival?.
william would eventually gain throne.	William would eventually gain what throne?.
coalition rose oppose louis xiv's france.	What coalition rose up to oppose Louis XIV's France?.
european country huguenot feel kinship emigration.	With what European country did the Huguenots feel kinship for emigration to?.
france dutch fight 17th century.	When did France and the Dutch fight in the 17th century?.
year william iii become king england.	In what year did William III become King of England?.
language william iii primarily speak.	What language did William III primarily speak?.
people league augsburg speak first language.	What did most people in the League of Augsburg speak as their first language?.
year king louis xiv france take throne.	In what year did King Louis XIV of France take the throne?.
proclamation abolished protestantism france.	What proclamation abolished protestantism in France?.
edict declared.	When was this edict declared?.
french kind issued declaration.	Which French kind issued this declaration?.
many huguenot fled france 1700s.	How many Huguenots fled France by the 1700s?.
decade louis xiv start reign.	In what decade did Louis XIV start his reign?.
many huguenot france 1685.	How many Huguenots were there in France in 1685?.
issued edict nantes.	Who had issued the Edict of Nantes?.
many huguenot france early 18th century.	How many Huguenots were in France in the early 18th century?.
group specifically opposed huguenot.	What group specifically opposed the Huguenots?.
event worst example huguenot persecution.	What event was the worst example of Huguenot persecution?.
many huguenot killed purge.	How many Huguenots were killed during this purge?.
huguenot defend.	How did the Huguenots defend themselves?.
non-religious reason massacre.	What was a non-religious reason for the massacre?.
many french catholic died bartholomew's day massacre.	How many French Catholics died during the Bartholomew's Day massacre?.
many french noble huguenot.	How many French nobles were Huguenots?.
many french catholic died huguenot retaliated.	How many French Catholics died after the Huguenots retaliated?.
many huguenot northern france time.	How many Huguenots were there in Northern France during this time?.
civil war caused huguenot called.	What were the civil wars caused by the Huguenots called?.
uprising take place.	Where did these uprisings take place?.
rebellion take place.	When did these rebellions take place?.
king former huguenot looked welfare group.	What King and former Huguenot looked out for the welfare of the group?.
successor henry resumed persecution huguenot.	Which successor to Henry resumed persecution of the Huguenots?.
second huguenot rebellion.	When was the second Huguenot rebellion?.
year louis xiii crowned.	In what year was Louis XIII crowned?.
nationality louis xiii originally.	What nationality was Louis XIII originally?.
one nationality huguenot established diplomatic contact.	What was one of the nationalities that the Huguenots established diplomatic contacts with?.
religion italian 1620s.	What religion were most Italians during the 1620s?.
many protestant live france today.	How many protestants live in France today?.
percentage france's population protestant today.	What percentage of France's population is protestant today?.
northern province france large protestant population.	What northern province in France has a large protestant population?.
southern region protestant concentrated.	What is the southern region where protestants are concentrated?.
country currently group call huguenot.	What country currently has a group who call themselves Huguenots?.
many regard huguenot today outside france.	How many regard themselves as Huguenots today outside of France?.
many people live alsace region france.	How many people live in the Alsace region of France?.
fewest protestant france.	Where are there the fewest Protestants in France?.
percentage people australia regard huguenot.	What percentage of people in Australia regard themselves as Huguenots?.
many protestant cevennes mountain region.	 How many Protestants are there in the Cevennes mountain region?.
city north new york settled huguenot.	What city north of New York was settled by Huguenots?.
town upstate new york settled huguenot.	What town in upstate New York was settled by Huguenots?.
huguenot area designated historical landmark.	What Huguenot area is designated as a historical landmark?.
located within district.	What is located within this district?.
borough neighborhood called huguenot.	In what borough is there a neighborhood called Huguenot?.
far new paltz new york.	How far is New Paltz from New York?.
far new rochelle new paltz.	How far is New Rochelle from New Paltz?.
long south shore staten island.	How long is the south shore of Staten Island?.
huguenot decide live.	Where did most of the Huguenots decide to live?.
fewest huguenot stay.	Where did the fewest Huguenots stay?.
country initially received largest number huguenot refugee.	What country initially received the largest number of Huguenot refugees?.
many refugee emigrated dutch republic.	How many refugees emigrated to the Dutch Republic?.
population dutch republic emigration.	What was the population of the Dutch Republic before this emigration?.
two area republic first grant right huguenot.	What two areas in the Republic were first to grant rights to the Huguenots?.
declaration predicated emigration huguenot refugee.	What declaration predicated the emigration of Huguenot refugees?.
many huguenot lived west frisia 1705.	How many Huguenots lived in West Frisia in 1705?.
many huguenot lived amsterdam 1705.	How many Huguenots lived in Amsterdam in 1705?.
year edict nantes revoked.	In what year was the Edict of Nantes revoked?.
many clergyman dutch republic influx huguenot.	How many clergymen were there in the Dutch Republic before the influx of Huguenots?.
country cevennes.	In what country is the Cevennes?.
gate king hugo.	Where was the Gate of King Hugo?.
name gate known.	By what other name was the Gate known?.
allegedly haunted gate.	Who allegedly haunted the gate?.
name "supposedly reformed" known.	By what name were the "supposedly reformed" known?.
time day reformed supposedly gather engage huguenot ritual.	What time of day did these reformed supposedly gather to engage in Huguenot rituals?.
year huguon built.	In what year was Huguon built?.
year king hugo die.	In what year did King Hugo die?.
year le roi huguet die.	In what year did le roi Huguet die?.
year reguier de la plancha born.	In what year was Reguier de la Plancha born?.
year cape monthly first published.	In what year was The Cape Monthly first published?.
huguenot walloon settle england.	Where did Huguenots and Walloons settle in England?.
house site weaving school canterbury.	What house was the site of a weaving school in Canterbury?.
social construct huguenot refugee canterbury practice.	What social construct did Huguenot refugees in Canterbury practice?.
english town site huguenot settlement.	What other English towns were sites of Huguenot settlement?.
located site weaving house currently.	What is located on the site of The Weaving House currently?.
weaver converted restaurant.	When was the The Weavers converted into a restaurant?.
english town huguenot live.	In which English town did the most Huguenots live?.
english town walloon live.	In which English town did the most Walloons live?.
one occupation native english.	What was one occupation of the native English?.
english town largest refugee church.	Which English town had the largest refugee church?.
irish city huguenot mayor 1600s 1700s.	What Irish cities had Huguenot mayors in the 1600s and 1700s?.
french church street irish town.	French Church Street is in what Irish town?.
d'olier street.	Where is D'Olier Street?.
d'olier street named.	D'Olier Street is named after whom?.
french church portarlington built.	The French church in Portarlington was built when?.
irish city sign remain seen huguenot.	In what Irish city can few signs remain to be seen of the Huguenots?.
year d'olier street built dublin.	In what year was D'Olier Street built in Dublin?.
year french church street built cork.	In what year was French Church Street built in Cork?.
huguenot district named cork year.	The Huguenot District was named in Cork in what year?.
d'olier's first name.	What was D'olier's first name?.
common term loss key member french society huguenot emigration.	What is the common term for the loss of key members of French society to Huguenot emigration?.
name france's primary colony new world.	What was the name of France's primary colony in the New World?.
person allowed settle new france.	What persons were not allowed to settle in New France?.
french indian war new world aspect european conflict.	The French and Indian War was the New World aspect of what European conflict?.
british defeat new france.	When did the British defeat New France?.
year french indian war begin.	In what year did the French and Indian War begin?.
people allowed settle british colony.	What people weren't allowed to settle in British colonies?.
year first huguenot arrive british colony.	In what year did the first Huguenots arrive in the British colonies?.
seven years' war.	Who won the Seven Years' War?.
henry iv known taking throne.	What was Henry IV known as before taking the throne?.
henry issue edict nantes.	When did Henry issue the Edict of Nantes?.
edict huguenot france.	What did the Edict do for Huguenots in France?.
edict protected catholic discouraging.	The edict protected Catholics by discouraging what?.
religion henry renounce upon ascending throne.	What religion did Henry renounce upon ascending the throne?.
year henry navarre born.	In what year was Henry of Navarre born?.
year henry navarre made henry iv.	In what year was Henry of Navarre made Henry IV?.
year warfare france protestant catholic get start.	In what year did the warfare in France between Protestants and Catholics get it start?.
edict nantes encourage catholic-controlled area france.	What did the Edict of Nantes encourage in Catholic-controlled areas of France?.
required huguenot child edict revoked.	What was required of Huguenot children after the Edict was revoked?.
revocation restrict huguenot travel.	How did the revocation restrict Huguenot travel?.
many huguenot emigrated north america colonist.	How many Huguenots emigrated to North America as colonists?.
huguenot stayed france eventually known.	What were Huguenots who stayed in France eventually known as?.
besides britain north america, else huguenot refugee settle.	Besides Britain and North America, where else did Huguenot refugees settle?.
many french people fled prussia.	How many French people fled to Prussia?.
besides england else particularly welcoming fleeing france.	Besides England who else were particularly welcoming to those fleeing France?.
country well known offering protestant education.	What country was very well known for offering a Protestant education?.
many fleeing france went become doctor.	How many of those fleeing France went on to become doctors?.
many huguenot chose stay france.	How many Huguenots chose to stay in France?.
first two destination huguenot emigre.	What were the first two destinations of Huguenot emigres?.
french colony modern day brazil founded.	When was the French colony in modern day Brazil founded?.
brazilian french colony called.	What was the Brazilian French colony called?.
year fort coligny destroyed.	In what year was Fort Coligny destroyed?.
document huguenot confess faith portuguese brazil.	By what document did the Huguenots confess their faith to the Portuguese in Brazil?.
many huguenot part group founded france antarctique 1555.	How many Huguenots were part of the group that founded France Antarctique in 1555?.
year fort coligny built.	In what year was Fort Coligny built?.
many first wave huguenot's fleeing switzerland.	How many were in the first wave of Huguenot's fleeing to Switzerland?.
many huguenot's portuguese kill protestant guanabara.	How many Huguenot's did the Portuguese kill for being Protestant in Guanabara?.
family french name south africa speak language today.	Families with French names in South Africa speak what language today?.
south african industry descended huguenot settler.	What South African industry descended from Huguenot settlers?.
one find formerly huguenot farm south africa.	Where can one find the formerly Huguenot farms in South Africa?.
characteristic identifies french ancestry south african.	What characteristic identifies the French ancestry of some South Africans?.
prominent south african family vineyard france.	What prominent South African family had a vineyard in France?.
south african family largest vineyard france.	What South African family had the largest vineyard in France?.
prominent south african family distilled brandy huguenot.	What prominent South African family distilled brandy and were Huguenots?.
huguenot french family largest brandy distilling business south africa.	What Huguenot French family had the largest brandy distilling business in South Africa?.
revolutionary war midnight rider huguenot descendant.	What Revolutionary War midnight rider was a Huguenot descendant?.
signer article confederation descended huguenot.	What signer of the Articles of Confederation was descended from Huguenots?.
city last huguenot congregation u.	In what city is the last Huguenot congregation in the US?.
church virginia maintained huguenot historic shrine.	What church in Virginia is maintained by Huguenots as a historic shrine?.
state largest huguenot society located.	In what state is the largest Huguenot Society located?.
year article confederation south carolina signed.	In what year was the Articles of Confederation for South Carolina signed?.
year huguenot society america founded.	In what year was the Huguenot Society for America founded?.
huguenot church charleston, south carolina named.	What is the Huguenot church in Charleston, South Carolina named?.
owned cuckoo tavern.	Who owned the Cuckoo Tavern?.
state cuckoo tavern.	In what state was the Cuckoo Tavern?.
industry centered bedfordshire.	What industry was centered in Bedfordshire?.
style lace erroneously believed huguenot influence.	What style of lace is erroneously believed by some to have Huguenot influence?.
reference huguenot lacemakers 19th century.	What reference is there to Huguenot lacemakers in the 19th century?.
mechlin lace develop.	When did Mechlin lace develop?.
many immigrant lacemakers bedfordshire.	How many immigrant lacemakers were there in Bedfordshire?.
era "bucks point" lace making developed.	In what era was "Bucks Point" lace making developed?.
many huguenot settled bedfordshire.	How many Huguenots settled in Bedfordshire?.
dover main british center time.	What was Dover the main British center of at the time?.
two huguenot neighborhood created berlin.	What were the two Huguenot neighborhoods created in Berlin?.
portion berlin's population spoke french 1700.	What portion of Berlin's population spoke French by 1700?.
berlin huguenot switch german french service.	Why did Berlin Huguenots switch to German from French in their services?.
year occupation take place.	What years did this occupation take place?.
northern european city huguenot congregation.	What other Northern European cities had Huguenot congregations?.
year napoleon come power france.	In what year did Napoleon come to power in France?.
neighborhood huguenot establish stockholm.	What neighborhood did Huguenots establish in Stockholm?.
neighborhood huguenot create hamburg.	What neighborhood did Huguenots create in Hamburg?.
huguenot first arrive helsinki.	When did Huguenots first arrive in Helsinki?.
much helsinki's population spoke french 1700.	How much of Helsinki's population spoke French as of 1700?.
central european country calvinist ruler.	Which central European country had a Calvinist ruler?.
huguenot fled france, last remaining bastion.	After Huguenots fled France, their last remaining bastion was where?.
18th century huguenot group call.	What did the 18th century Huguenot group call themselves?.
camisards rise fight.	Against whom did the Camisards rise up to fight?.
french troop put camisard uprising year.	French troops put down the Camisard uprisings between what years?.
year frederick william prussia become great elector.	In what year did Frederick William of Prussia become the Great Elector?.
many huguenot fled england.	How many Huguenots fled to England?.
many people prussia lose due war.	How many people did Prussia lose due to war?.
fighting stop prussia.	When did the fighting stop in Prussia?.
year camisards organize regional group southern france.	In what year did the Camisards organize as a regional group in southern France?.
16th century huguenot settlement near modern day florida city.	There was a 16th century Huguenot settlement near what modern day Florida city?.
leader established colony florida.	Who was the leader who established the colony at Florida?.
name florida huguenot colony.	What was the name of the Florida Huguenot colony?.
army attacked destroyed colony.	Which army attacked and destroyed this colony?.
colony destroyed.	When was the colony destroyed?.
year jean ribault born.	In what year was Jean Ribault born?.
many huguenot pedro menendez murdered st augustine.	How many Huguenots did Pedro Menendez have murdered  at  St Augustine?.
many huguenot fort caroline.	How many Huguenots were there in Fort Caroline?.
norman huguenot sailed order arrive fort caroline.	From where had the Norman Huguenots sailed in order to arrive at Fort Caroline?.
name first huguenot outpost south carolina.	What was the name of the first Huguenot outpost in South Carolina?.
present-day area settlement near.	What present-day area was this settlement near?.
spanish officer established settlement st. augustine.	Which Spanish officer established the settlement at St. Augustine?.
ribault first establish settlement south carolina.	When did Ribault first establish a settlement in South Carolina?.
european event caused huguenot abandon charlesfort.	What European event caused the Huguenots to abandon Charlesfort?.
year war religion start.	In what year did the Wars of Religion start?.
year rene goulaine de laudonniere born.	In what year was Rene Goulaine de Laudonniere born?.
year pedro menendez de aviles born.	In what year was Pedro Menendez de Aviles born?.
year rene goulaine de laudonniere leave position lieutenant jean ribault.	In what year did Rene Goulaine de Laudonniere leave his position as a lieutenant for Jean Ribault?.
year french huguenot abandon first north american outpost.	In what year did the French Huguenots abandon their first North American outpost?.
english colony huguenot settler promised land.	In what English colony were Huguenot settlers promised land?.
area british colony huguenot land grant.	In what area of this British colony were Huguenot land grants?.
town actually granted huguenot arrival.	What town was actually granted to the Huguenots on arrival?.
many settler original settled manakintown.	How many settlers original settled in Manakintown?.
settler naturalized english colonist.	When were these settlers naturalized as English colonists?.
many french huguenot eventually moved missouri manakin town.	How many French Huguenots eventually moved to Missouri from Manakin Town?.
many french huguenot manakin town ended moving kentucky.	How many French Huguenots in Manakin Town ended up moving to Kentucky?.
many french huguenot resident manakin town actually live outside town farm.	How many French Huguenot residents of Manakin Town actually live outside the town on farms?.
century huguenot memorial bridge built.	In what century was the Huguenot Memorial Bridge built?.
year manakin town first abandoned.	In what year had Manakin Town first been abandoned?.
dutch revolt.	When was the Dutch Revolt?.
dutch fight dutch revolt.	Who did the Dutch fight in the Dutch Revolt?.
dutch document condemned spanish inquisition.	What Dutch document condemned the Spanish Inquisition?.
leader led dutch revolt wrote apologie.	What leader led the Dutch Revolt and wrote Apologie?.
dutch leader's religious affiliation.	What was the Dutch leader's religious affiliation?.
year william silent issue "apologie".	In what year did William the Silent issue his "Apologie"?.
nationality pierre l'oyseleur.	What nationality was Pierre L'Oyseleur?.
colony town delft.	In what colony was the town of Delft?.
year huguenot begin settle south africa.	In what year did Huguenots begin to settle in South Africa?.
william silent's father.	Who was William the Silent's father?.
english law made country welcoming huguenot.	What English law made that country more welcoming to Huguenots?.
naturalization act passed.	When was this naturalization act passed?.
many walloon huguenot emigrated england ireland era.	About how many Walloons and Huguenots emigrated to England and Ireland in this era?.
famous huguenot theologian writer london.	Who was the famous Huguenot theologian and writer in London?.
catholic church liturgical belief lortie criticize openly.	What Catholic Church liturgical belief did Lortie criticize openly?.
many huguenot fled england foreign protestant naturalization act passed.	How many Huguenots fled to England after the Foreign Protestants Naturalization Act was passed?.
many protestant walloon fled england foreign protestant naturalization act passed.	How many Protestant Walloons fled to England before the Foreign Protestants Naturalization Act was passed?.
andrew lortie originally.	Where was Andrew Lortie originally from?.
year andrew lortie born.	In what year was Andrew Lortie born?.
many protestant walloon huguenot continued england ended ireland.	How many Protestant Walloons and Huguenots continued on through England and ended up in Ireland?.
war ireland featured huguenot regiment.	What war in Ireland featured Huguenot regiments?.
leader huguenot fight conflict.	Under which leader did the Huguenots fight in this conflict?.
irish city large huguenot enclave.	Which Irish cities had large Huguenot enclaves?.
huguenot killeshandra county cavan expanded agricultural industry.	Huguenots in Killeshandra and County Cavan expanded what agricultural industry?.
textile industry huguenot contribute ireland.	What textile industry did the Huguenots contribute to in Ireland?.
era williamite war ireland.	In what era was the Williamite war in Ireland?.
biggest settlement huguenot ireland.	Where was the biggest settlement of Huguenots in Ireland?.
smallest settlement huguenot ireland among major city.	Where was the smallest settlement of Huguenots in Ireland among major cities?.
huguenot settled dublin contribute.	What did the Huguenots who settled in Dublin contribute?.
huguenot settled cork contribute.	What did the Huguenots who settled in Cork contribute?.
noble helped establish huguenot settlement saarland.	Which noble helped establish the Huguenot settlement in Saarland?.
count prince strike arrangement.	Which Count did the Prince strike an arrangement with?.
industry nobleman establish settlement.	What industry did the nobleman establish with this settlement?.
era member community emigrate u.	In what era did some members of this community emigrate to the US?.
year agreement allow saarland settlement reached.	In what year was the agreement to allow the Saarland settlement reached?.
year prince louis de conde born.	In what year was Prince Louis de Conde born?.
year ludwig von nassau-saarbrucken made count.	In what year was Ludwig von Nassau-Saarbrucken made a Count?.
count ludwig von nassau-saarbucken's father.	Who was Count Ludwig von Nassau-Saarbucken's father?.
year huguenot first move present-day saarland.	In what year did Huguenots first move to present-day Saarland?.
two member nation holy roman empire received huguenot refugee.	What two member nations of the Holy Roman Empire received Huguenot refugees?.
general religious belief nation received huguenot refugee common.	What general religious belief did the nations that received Huguenot refugees have in common?.
area south africa accepted huguenot colonist.	What area in South Africa accepted Huguenot colonists?.
area modern-day canada received huguenot immigrant.	What area in modern-day Canada received Huguenot immigrants?.
made emigration colony attractive.	What made emigration to these colonies attractive?.
nation huguenot flee france.	What nation did the most Huguenots flee to from France?.
nation fewest huguenot flee france.	To what nation did the fewest Huguenots flee to from France?.
religion predominated holy roman empire.	What religion predominated in the Holy Roman Empire?.
biggest religion sweden.	What was the biggest religion in Sweden?.
biggest religion quebec.	What was the biggest religion in Quebec?.
french king huguenot name possibly descend.	From what French King did the Huguenot name possibly descend?.
theory king's name origin "huguenot" called.	What is the theory that this King's name is the origin of "Huguenot" called?.
one prominent advocate theory.	Who is one prominent advocate of this theory?.
according theory, name "huguenot" mean.	According to the theory, what does the name "Huguenot" mean?.
theory word's origin generally classed.	Other theories of the word's origin can be generally classed as what?.
first king france reign reformation.	Who was the first king of France to reign during the Reformation?.
religion hugues capet.	What religion was Hugues Capet?.
religion janet gray.	What religion was Janet Gray?.
janet gray married.	Who was Janet Gray married to?.
one french pro-reform roman catholic 15th century.	Who was one French pro-reform Roman Catholic of the 15th century? .
pro-reform leader teach.	Where did this pro-reform leader teach?.
leader publish french language bible.	When did this leader publish a French language Bible?.
leader swiss reformation student lefevre.	What leader of the Swiss reformation was a student of Lefevre?.
european protestant leader educated university paris.	What other European Protestant leader was educated at the University of Paris?.
nation gallicans get start.	In what nation did the Gallicans get their start?.
french city jacques lefevre.	What French city was Jacques Lefevre from?.
year john calvin graduate university paris.	In what year did John Calvin graduate from the University of Paris?.
year john calvin become protestant.	In what year did John Calvin become a Protestant?.
one prominent french waldensians.	Who was one of the most prominent French Waldensians?.
st. bartholomew's day massacre.	When was the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre?.
group killed thousand huguenot.	What group killed thousands of Huguenots?.
many huguenot killed toulouse.	How many Huguenots were killed in Toulouse?.
amnesty granted responsible massacre.	When was amnesty granted to those responsible for the massacre?.
report document many parisien protestant killed september 17.	Reports document that how many Parisien Protestants were killed by September 17?.
many huguenot killed bordeaux.	How many Huguenots were killed in Bordeaux?.
french city 2,000 huguenot killed.	In which French city was about 2,000 Huguenots killed?.
many huguenot killed altogether france.	How many Huguenots were killed altogether in France?.
many huguenot slaughtered orleans.	How many Huguenots were slaughtered in Orleans?.
many huguenot slain toulouse.	How many Huguenots were slain in Toulouse?.
became king 1643.	Who became king in 1643?.
new king react huguenot.	How did the new king react to the Huguenots?.
king's first approach huguenot.	What was the king's first approach to the Huguenots?.
king regarding huguenot education.	What did the king do to regarding Huguenot education?.
practice occupying looting huguenot home called.	The practice of occupying and looting Huguenot homes was called?.
year louis xiv die.	In what year did Louis XIV die?.
year louis xiv start bribe protestant convert catholicism.	In what year did Louis XIV start to bribe Protestants to convert to Catholicism?.
year louis xiv start deny protestant ability work certain profession.	In what year did Louis XIV start to deny Protestants the ability to work in certain professions?.
year edict nantes issued.	In what year was the Edict of Nantes issued?.
year dragonnades started.	In what year were the Dragonnades started?.
present day county new rochelle.	What present day county is New Rochelle in?.
huguenot land new york originally.	Where did the Huguenots land in New York originally?.
huguenot purchase land settled.	From whom did the Huguenots purchase the land where they settled?.
french city new rochelle named.	What French City was New Rochelle named after?.
name third, permanent huguenot church new rochelle.	What is the name of the third, permanent Huguenot church in New Rochelle?.
named "bauffet's point" davenport neck.	Who named "Bauffet's Point" at Davenports Neck?.
much land lord pelham manor, john pell. total north america.	How much land did the Lord of Pelham Manor, John Pell. own in total in North America?.
whose decision name new town new rochelle.	Whose decision was it to name the new town New Rochelle?.
far davenport neck new rochelle.	How far is it from Davenports Neck to New Rochelle?.
name first wooden church built new rochelle.	What was the name of the first wooden church built in New Rochelle?.
huguenot evolve religious belief new world.	How did Huguenots evolve their religious beliefs in the New World?.
huguenot settler assimilated north american society large.	How were Huguenot settlers assimilated into North American society at large?.
one prominent huguenot-descended arm manufacturer.	Who was one prominent Huguenot-descended arms manufacturer?.
long huguenot continue use french name.	For how long did Huguenots continue to use French names?.
name du pont's gunpowder operation.	What was the name of du Pont's gunpowder operation?.
century eleutherian gunpowder mill founded.	In what century was Eleutherian gunpowder mills founded?.
protestant's contribution united state economic life.	What were Protestant's contributions to the United State economic life?.
nationality lavoisier.	What nationality was Lavoisier?.
huguenot hold onto religious belief year.	How did Huguenots hold onto some of their religious beliefs over the years?.
prominent huguenot holland.	Who was a prominent Huguenot in Holland?.
begin teaching.	Where did he begin teaching?.
book bayle publish.	What books did Bayle publish?.
book became foundational text library.	These books became a foundational text for what library?.
patron saint huguenot.	Who is the patron saint of the Huguenots?.
many month take pierre bayle write multi-volume series historical critical dictionary.	How many months did it take Pierre Bayle to write his multi-volume series Historical and Critical Dictionary?.
many french family name commonly used netherlands.	How many French family names are commonly used in the Netherlands?.
saint nicolas sint nicolaas celebrated earlier year netherlands.	Is Saint Nicolas or Sint Nicolaas celebrated earlier in the year in the Netherlands?.
many volume historical critical dictionary.	How many volumes is Historical and Critical Dictionary?.
early huguenot church established england.	What early Huguenot Church was established in England?.
charter church signed.	When was the charter for this church signed?.
present-day location church.	What is the present-day location of this church?.
london neighborhood attracted huguenot refugee.	What London neighborhood attracted Huguenot refugees?.
old truman brewery founded.	When was the Old Truman Brewery founded?.
year huguenot refugee first start move london.	In what year did Huguenot refugees first start to move to London?.
year black eagle brewery change name old truman brewery.	In what year did the Black Eagle Brewery change its name to Old Truman Brewery?.
huguenot church established norwich.	What Huguenot church was established in Norwich?.
much london's populace became immigrant.	How much of London's populace became immigrants?.
year huguenot refugee first settle norwich.	In what year did Huguenot refugees first settle in Norwich?.
protestant religion made northern european county safe huguenot immigration.	What protestant religions made Northern European counties safe for Huguenot immigration?.
area northern europe practiced religion.	Which areas of Northern Europe practiced those religions?.
proclamation gave huguenot special privilege brandenburg.	What proclamation gave Huguenots special privileges in Brandenburg?.
dual title frederick william hold.	What dual titles did Frederick William hold?.
military impact huguenot immigration frederick's army.	What military impact did Huguenot immigration have on Frederick's army?.
year altpreubissche infantry regiment no. 13 established.	In what year was the AltpreuBissche Infantry Regiment No. 13 established?.
year frederick william named elector brandenburg.	In what year was Frederick William named as the Elector of Brandenburg?.
many huguenot settled baden territory germany.	How many Huguenot settled in the Baden territory of Germany?.
many huguenot settled lower saxony territory germany.	How many Huguenot settled in the Lower Saxony territory of Germany?.
many men altpreusbische infantry no. 15.	How many men were in the AltpreusBische Infantry No. 15?.
german ruler invited huguenot immigration.	What German ruler invited Huguenot immigration?.
german poet descended huguenot.	What German poet was descended from Huguenots?.
german general fighter pilot huguenot ancestry.	What German general and fighter pilot was of Huguenot ancestry?.
final prime minister east germany.	Who was the final Prime Minister of East Germany?.
thomas de maiziere serf role german cabinet.	Thomas de Maiziere serves what role in the German cabinet?.
one frederick williams' descendant.	Who is one of Frederick Williams' descendants?.
descendant general hermann von francois.	Who is a descendant of General Hermann von Francois?.
side first world war battle tannenberg.	Which side won the First World War Battle of Tannenberg?.
ethnicity frederick william, elector brandenburg.	What ethnicity was Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg?.
one lothar de maiziere's predecessor.	Who was one of Lothar de Maiziere's predecessors?.
along geothermal nuclear, notable non-combustion heat source.	Along with geothermal and nuclear, what is a notable non-combustion heat source?.
ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes process steam engine work.	What ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes the process by which steam engines work?.
rankine cycle, water turn heated.	In the Rankine cycle, what does water turn into when heated?.
pressure water heated rankine cycle.	At what pressure is water heated in the Rankine cycle?.
type engine steam engine.	What types of engines are steam engines?.
along geothermal nuclear, notable combustion heat source.	Along with geothermal and nuclear, what is a notable combustion heat source?.
ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes process solar engine work.	What ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes the process by which solar engines work?.
rankine cycle, nuclear power turn heated.	In the Rankine cycle, what does nuclear power turn into when heated?.
pressure nuclear power heated rankine cycle.	At what pressure is nuclear power heated in the Rankine cycle?.
type engine solar engine.	What types of engines are solar engines?.
first true engine commercially successful.	What was the first true engine that was commercially successful?.
inventor atmospheric engine.	Who was the inventor of the atmospheric engine?.
year atmospheric engine invented.	About what year was the atmospheric engine invented?.
invented savery.	What was invented by Savery?.
conceptualized piston.	Who conceptualized the piston?.
first true vacuum commercially successful.	What was the first true vacuum that was commercially successful?.
inventor vacuum.	Who was the inventor of the vacuum?.
year vacuum engine developed.	About what year was the vacuum engine developed?.
invented storage reservoir.	What was invented in a storage reservoir?.
conceptualized vacuum.	Who conceptualized the vacuum?.
country full-scale working railway steam locomotive first invented.	In what country was a full-scale working railway steam locomotive first invented?.
date first railway trip world occur.	On what date did the first railway trip in the world occur?.
world's first railway journey terminate.	Where did the world's first railway journey terminate?.
constituent country united kingdom merthyr tydfil located.	In what constituent country of the United Kingdom is Merthyr Tydfil located?.
geographical portion wale abercynon located.	In what geographical portion of Wales is Abercynon located?.
country full-scale working railway steam centre first invented.	In what country was a full-scale working railway steam centre first invented?.
date first railway trip england occur.	On what date did the first railway trip in England occur?.
england's first railway journey terminate.	Where did the England's first railway journey terminate?.
constituent country united kingdom trevithick located.	In what constituent country of the United Kingdom is Trevithick located? .
geographical portion england abercynon located.	In what geographical portion of England is Abercynon located?.
device used recycle boiler water steam engine.	What device is used to recycle the boiler water in most steam engines?.
type pump typically used industrial boiler.	What types of pumps are typically used in industrial boilers?.
decade injector widely used steam engine.	In what decade were injectors widely used in steam engines?.
notable application injector today.	What is a notable application of injectors today?.
injector used supply.	What are injectors used to supply?.
device used recycle boiler water jet engine.	What device is used to recycle the boiler water in most jet engines?.
type pump typically used jet engine.	What types of pumps are typically used in jet engines?.
decade injector widely used jet engine.	In what decade were injectors widely used in jet engines?.
notable application jet engine today.	What is a notable application of jet engines today?.
jet engine used supply.	What are jet engines used to supply?.
many expansion stage used triple expansion engine.	How many expansion stages are used by the triple expansion engine?.
engine using four expansion stage known.	What are engines using four expansion stages known as?.
century yarrow-schlick-tweedy balancing system used.	In what century was the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy balancing system used?.
sort engine utilized yarrow-schlick-tweedy balancing system.	What sort of engines utilized the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy balancing system?.
class ship example large passenger liner.	What class of ships is an example of large passenger liners?.
many expansion stage used crankshaft engine.	How many expansion stages are used by the crankshaft engine?.
engine using four expansion cylinder known.	What are engines using four expansion cylinders known as?.
century olympic balancing system used.	In what century was the Olympic balancing system used?.
sort engine utilized olympic balancing system.	What sort of engines utilized the Olympic balancing system?.
class ship example small passenger liner.	What class of ships is an example of small passenger liners?.
along poppet valve gears, type gear utilized separate admission exhaust valve give ideal event.	Along with poppet valve gears, what type of gears utilized separate admission and exhaust valves to give ideal events?.
along stephenson walschaerts, example simple motion.	Along with Stephenson and Walschaerts, what is an example of a simple motion?.
lap provided overlapping admission side port.	How is lap provided by overlapping the admission side port?.
type gears, along poppet valve gears, utilized separate admission leakage cutoff give ideal event.	What type of gears, along with poppet valve gears, utilized separate admission and leakage cutoffs to give ideal events? .
example complicated exhaust, along stephenson walschaerts.	What is an example of complicated exhaust, along with Stephenson and Walschaerts?.
lap provided overlapping stationary marketplace port.	How is lap provided by overlapping the stationary marketplace port?.
attempt made overcome stationary marketplace.	When were attempts made to overcome stationary marketplaces?.
sometimes present boiler's firebox crown.	What are sometimes present in the boiler's firebox crown?.
happens lead fusible plug water level boiler drop.	What happens to the lead fusible plugs if the water level of the boiler drops?.
happens lead melt.	What happens after the lead melts?.
operator warned escape steam, may.	After the operators are warned by the escape of the steam, what may they then do?.
escape steam unlikely accomplish smallest boiler.	What is the escape of the steam unlikely to accomplish in all but the smallest boilers?.
sometimes present plug's firebox crown.	What are sometimes present in the plug's firebox crown?.
happens lead fusible plug water level fire drop.	What happens to the lead fusible plugs if the water level of the fire drops?.
happens firebox melt.	What happens after the firebox melts?.
operator warned escape firebox, may.	After the operators are warned by the escape of the firebox, what may they then do?.
escape firebox unlikely accomplish smallest boiler.	What is the escape of the firebox unlikely to accomplish in all but the smallest boilers?.
patented steam engine 1781.	Who patented a steam engine in 1781?.
sort motion watt's steam engine continuously produce.	What sort of motion did Watt's steam engine continuously produce?.
many horsepower watt's engine.	How many horsepower was Watt's engine?.
year 10000 horsepower engine available.	As of what year were 10000 horsepower engines available?.
steam engine important component.	What was the steam engine an important component of?.
patented steam engine 1883.	Who patented a steam engine in 1883?.
sort motion newcomen's steam engine continuously produce.	What sort of motion did Newcomen's steam engine continuously produce?.
many horsepower newcomen's engine.	How many horsepower was Newcomen's engine?.
year 1700 horsepower engine available.	As of what year were 1700 horsepower engines available?.
high pressure engine important component.	What was the high pressure engine an important component of?.
century history steam engine begin.	In what century did the history of the steam engine begin?.
conceptualized aeolipile.	Who conceptualized the aeolipile?.
hero alexandria's nationality.	What was Hero of Alexandria's nationality?.
described steam turbine 1629.	Who described a steam turbine in 1629?.
year jerónimo de ayanz beaumont patent water pump draining mine.	In what year did Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont patent a water pump for draining mines?.
century history steam digester begin.	In what century did the history of the steam digester begin?.
conceptualized piston.	Who conceptualized the piston?.
hero ayanz's nationality.	What was Hero of Ayanz's nationality?.
described steam turbine 1690.	Who described a steam turbine in 1690?.
year jeronimo de ayanz beaumont patent water pump draining patient.	In what year did Jeronimo de Ayanz y Beaumont patent a water pump for draining patients?.
type engine became widespread around end 19th century.	What type of engines became widespread around the end of the 19th century?.
stage compound engine called.	What are the stages in a compound engine called?.
field double triple expansion engine common.	In what field were double and triple expansion engines common?.
product notably shipped vessel equipped double triple expansion engine.	What product was notably shipped in vessels equipped with double and triple expansion engines?.
along electric motors, power source overtook steam engine 20th century.	Along with electric motors, what power sources overtook steam engines in the 20th century?.
type engine became widespread around end 20th century.	What type of engines became widespread around the end of the 20th century?.
stage efficiency engine called.	What are the stages in an efficiency engine called?.
field double triple expansion replacement common.	In what field were double and triple expansion replacements common?.
product notably shipped vessel equipped double triple replacement engine.	What product was notably shipped in vessels equipped with double and triple replacement engines?.
along electric motors, power source overtook expansion engine 20th century.	Along with electric motors, what power sources overtook expansion engines in the 20th century?.
use device represented last major evolution steam engine.	The use of what device represented the last major evolution of the steam engine?.
part 19th century steam turbine introduced.	In what part of the 19th century were steam turbines introduced?.
horsepower steam turbine usually efficient steam engine use reciprocating piston.	Above what horsepower are steam turbines usually more efficient than steam engines that use reciprocating pistons?.
percentage electrical power united state made steam turbine.	What percentage of electrical power in the United States is made by steam turbines?.
power sort generated steam turbine today.	Most power of what sort is generated by steam turbines today?.
device's use represented last major evolution generator.	What device's use represented the last major evolution of the generator?.
part 19th century generator introduced.	In what part of the 19th century where generators introduced? .
horsepower steam turbine usually efficient generator use reciprocating piston.	Above what horsepower are steam turbines usually more efficient than generators that use reciprocating pistons?.
percentage electrical power united state made generator.	What percentage of electrical power in the United States is made by generators?.
sort power generated heat source today.	What sort of power is generated by heat sources today?.
usual source heat boiling water steam engine.	What is the usual source of heat for boiling water in the steam engine?.
aside firebox, another name space combustible material burned engine.	Aside from firebox, what is another name for the space in which combustible material is burned in the engine?.
along nuclear, geothermal internal combustion engine waste heat, sort energy might supply heat steam engine.	Along with nuclear, geothermal and internal combustion engine waste heat, what sort of energy might supply the heat for a steam engine?.
type heating element often used toy steam engine.	What type of heating element is often used in toy steam engines?.
usual source heat boiling water industrial process.	What is the usual source of heat for boiling water in the industrial process?.
what, aside firebox, another name space combustible material burned electric heating element.	What, aside from firebox, is another name for the space in which combustible material is burned in the electric heating element?.
type heating element often used toy chamber engine.	What type of heating element is often used in toy chamber engines?.
sort energy, along nuclear, geothermal, internal combustion waste heat, might supply heat firebox.	What sort of energy, along with nuclear, geothermal, and internal combustion waste heat, might supply the heat for a firebox?.
type heating element often used closed space engine.	What type of heating element is often used in closed space engines?.
instrument used examine steam engine performance.	What instrument is used to examine steam engine performance?.
year saw earliest recorded use steam engine indicator.	What year saw the earliest recorded use of the steam engine indicator?.
company developed successful steam engine indicator.	What company developed the most successful steam engine indicator?.
developed successful steam engine indicator charles porter.	Who developed a successful steam engine indicator for Charles Porter?.
charles porter steam engine indicator shown.	Where was the Charles Porter steam engine indicator shown?.
instrument used examine diagram performance.	What instrument is used to examine diagram performance?.
year saw earliest recorded use steam engine.	What year saw the earliest recorded use of steam engines?.
company developed successful steam engine.	What company developed the most successful steam engine?.
developed successful steam engine charles porter.	Who developed a successful steam engine for Charles Porter?.
charles porter steam engine shown.	Where was the Charles Porter steam engine shown?.
degree piston two-cylinder compound connected crank.	At what degree are the pistons of a two-cylinder compound connected to the cranks?.
4-cylinder compound engine, degree individual piston balanced.	In a 4-cylinder compound engine, what degree were the individual pistons balanced at?.
angle group piston set relation one another 4-cylinder compound.	At what angle were the groups of pistons set in relation to one another in a 4-cylinder compound?.
degree piston two-cylinder compound connected piston.	At what degree are the pistons of a two-cylinder compound connected to the pistons?.
4-cylinder compound engine, degree individual crank balanced.	In a 4-cylinder compound engine, what degree were the individual cranks balanced at.
angle group piston set relation one another 4-cylinder crank.	At what angle were the groups of pistons set in relation to one another in a 4-cylinder crank?.
happens double expansion crank duplicated.	What happens when the double expansion crank is duplicated?.
happens railway first type vauclain compound.	What happens to railways in the first type of Vauclain compound?.
term reversing steam flow piston engine stroke.	What is a term for the reversing of steam flow in a piston engine after each stroke?.
many piston stroke occur engine cycle.	How many piston strokes occur in an engine cycle?.
many crank rotation engine cycle.	How many crank rotations are there in an engine cycle?.
many event occur engine cycle.	How many events occur in an engine cycle?.
along admission, exhaust compression, event engine cycle.	Along with admission, exhaust and compression, what is an event in the engine cycle?.
term reversing steam flow compression engine stroke.	What is a term for the reversing of steam flow in a compression engine after each stroke?.
many piston stroke occur exhaust cycle.	How many piston strokes occur in an exhaust cycle?.
many crank rotation cylinder cycle.	How many crank rotations are there in a cylinder cycle?.
many event occur steam cycle.	How many events occur in a steam cycle?.
what, along admission, exhaust, compression, event steam cycle.	What, along with admission, exhaust, and compression, is an event in the steam cycle?.
name uniflow engine take steam hot area exhaust cold.	What is the name of a uniflow engine that takes in steam in hot areas and exhausts it in cold?.
uniflow engine attempt fix issue arises cycle.	The uniflow engine is an attempt to fix an issue that arises in what cycle?.
part added uniflow engine resolve issue counterflow cycle.	What part is added to the uniflow engine to resolve the issue in the counterflow cycle?.
name uniflow engine take steam hot area exhaust passing.	What is the name of a uniflow engine that takes in steam in hot areas and exhausts it in passing?.
cycle issue expansion gradient attempt fix.	What cycle has an issue for which an expansion gradient attempts to fix?.
part added expansion gradient resolve issue counterflow cycle.	What part is added to the expansion gradient to resolve the issue in the counterflow cycle?.
attempt remedy difficulty arising gradient performance.	What attempt to remedy the difficulties arising from gradient performance?.
aim additional stroke.	What is the aim of the additional stroke?.
type steam engine need valve direct steam.	What type of steam engine doesn't need valves to direct steam?.
another term pivot mounting.	What is another term for the pivot mounting?.
along toys, oscillating cylinder steam engine typically used.	Along with toys, where are oscillating cylinder steam engines typically used?.
full size working engine vehicle sometimes use oscillating cylinder steam engine.	Full size working engines on what vehicles sometimes use oscillating cylinder steam engines?.
type steam engine need valve direct engine.	What type of steam engine doesn't need valves to direct engines?.
another term port face.	What is another term for the port face?.
where, along toys, oscillating cylinder port face typically used.	Where, along with toys, are oscillating cylinder port faces typically used?.
vehicle full size working engine sometimes use oscillating cylinder rock.	On what vehicles do full size working engines sometimes use oscillating cylinder rocks?.
variant simple expansion pivot mounting.	What is a variant of the simple expansion pivot mounting?.
happens working fluid closed loop system.	What happens to the working fluid in a closed loop system?.
sort system release exhaust steam atmosphere.	What sort of system releases the exhaust steam into the atmosphere?.
working fluid used mercury vapor turbine.	What working fluid is used in a mercury vapor turbine?.
typical working fluid steam engine.	What is the typical working fluid in a steam engine?.
happens working fluid chemistry system.	What happens to the working fluid in a chemistry system?.
sort system release exhaust steam boiler.	What sort of system releases the exhaust steam into the boiler?.
working fluid used mercury cycle.	What working fluid is used in a mercury cycle?.
typical working fluid vapor turbine.	What is the typical working fluid in a vapor turbine?.
working fluid boiler cycle operate.	What can the working fluid in a boiler cycle operate as?.
limit rankine cycle's efficiency.	What limits the Rankine cycle's efficiency?.
turbine entry temperature steam turbine, degree celsius.	What is the turbine entry temperature of a steam turbine, in degrees Celsius?.
565 °c creep limit.	What is  565 °C the creep limit of?.
approximate condenser temperature turbine.	What is the approximate condenser temperature in a turbine?.
turbine's theoretical carnot efficiency.	What is a turbine's theoretical Carnot efficiency?.
limit rankine cycle's temperature.	What limits the Rankine cycle's temperatures?.
turbine entry temperature rankine turbine, degree celsius.	What is the turbine entry temperature of a Rankine turbine, in degrees Celsius?.
63 degree celsius creep limit.	What is 63 degrees celsius the creep limit of?.
approximate condenser temperature stainless steel.	What is the approximate condenser temperature in stainless steel?.
stainless steel's theoretical carnot efficiency.	What is stainless steel's theoretical Carnot efficiency?.
device credited moving force industrial revolution.	What devices have been credited as the moving force of the Industrial Revolution?.
along road vehicles, locomotive ships, vehicle steam engine used industrial revolution.	Along with road vehicles, locomotives and ships, on what vehicles were steam engines used during the Industrial Revolution?.
example steam-powered automobile.	What is an example of a steam-powered automobile?.
along mill mines, industrial location steam drive machine.	Along with mills and mines, in what industrial locations did steam drive machines?.
use steam engine farming lead.	What did the use of steam engines in farming lead to?.
device credited moving force cultivation.	What devices have been credited as the moving force of cultivation?.
along road vehicles, locomotive ships, vehicle steam engine used cultivation.	Along with road vehicles, locomotives and ships, on what vehicles were steam engines used during cultivation?.
example road vehicle.	What is an example of a road vehicle?.
along mill mines, industrial location steam drive cultivation.	Along with mills and mines, in what industrial locations did steam drive cultivation?.
use motorcycle farming lead.	What did the use of motorcycles in farming lead to?.
name locomotive debuted 1808.	What was the name of the locomotive that debuted in 1808?.
designed salamanca.	Who designed Salamanca?.
type locomotive salamanca.	What type of locomotive was Salamanca?.
railroad salamanca used.	On what railroad was Salamanca used?.
railroad stephenson build locomotive 1825.	For what railroad did Stephenson build a locomotive in 1825?.
name locomotive debuted 1825.	What was the name of the locomotive that debuted in 1825?.
designed salamanca.	Who designed Salamanca?.
type locomotive darlington.	What type of locomotive was Darlington?.
railroad darlington used.	On what railroad was Darlington used?.
railroad murray build locomotive 1825.	For what railroad did Murray build a locomotive in 1825?.
patented high-pressure compound engine 1805.	Who patented a high-pressure compound engine in 1805?.
nationality arthur woolf.	What nationality was Arthur Woolf?.
decreased staging expansion across multiple cylinder.	What is decreased by staging expansion across multiple cylinders?.
need larger get work lower pressure steam.	What needs to be larger to get the same work out of lower pressure steam?.
patented high-pressure compound engine 1804.	Who patented a high-pressure compound engine in 1804?.
nationality arthur smith.	What nationality was Arthur Smith?.
decreased staging expansion across one cylinder.	What is decreased by staging expansion across one cylinder?.
need larger get work lower pressure cooling.	What needs to be larger to get the same work out of lower pressure cooling?.
patented woolf cooling cylinder.	Who patented the Woolf cooling cylinder?.
percentage electricity made steam turbine 1990s.	What percentage of electricity was made by steam turbine in the 1990s?.
marine engine le efficient steam turbine.	What marine engines were less efficient than steam turbines?.
along diesel engines, engine overtaken steam engine marine propulsion.	Along with diesel engines, what engines have overtaken steam engines for marine propulsion?.
engine used throughout 20th century propel ship.	What engines were used throughout most of the 20th century to propel ships?.
gearing used steam turbine marine engine 20th century.	What gearing was used on steam turbine marine engines in the 20th century?.
percentage electricity made power plant 1990s.	What percentage of electricity was made by power plants in the 1990s?.
marine engine le efficient gas turbine.	What marine engines were less efficient than gas turbines?.
engines, along diesel engines, overtaken steam engine gas propulsion.	What engines, along with diesel engines, have overtaken steam engines for gas propulsion?.
engine used throughout 20th century propel power plant.	What engines were used throughout most of the 20th century to propel power plants?.
gearing used steam turbine engine 1990s.	What gearing was used on steam turbine engines until the 1990s?.
steam engine's thermodynamic basis.	What is the steam engine's thermodynamic basis?.
happens waste heat rankine cycle.	What happens to waste heat in the Rankine cycle?.
decade rankine cycle create 90% electric power.	In what decade did the Rankine cycle create 90% of electric power?.
along solar, coal nuclear, sort plant notable use rankine process.	Along with solar, coal and nuclear, what sort of plants notable use the Rankine process?.
william rankine's nationality.	What is William Rankine's nationality?.
exhaust's thermodynamic basis.	What is the exhaust's thermodynamic basis?.
happens waste heat water.	What happens to waste heat in the water?.
decade rankine cycle create 90% engine component.	In what decade did the Rankine cycle create 90% of engine components?.
what, along solar, coal, nuclear, us heat process.	What, along with solar, coal, and nuclear, uses the heat process?.
william jones's nationality.	What is William Jones's nationality?.
efficiency steam engine typically evaluated.	How was the efficiency of a steam engine typically evaluated?.
invented notion steam engine's duty.	Who invented the notion of a steam engine's duty?.
weight bushel coal pound.	What is the weight of a bushel of coal in pounds?.
ideal duty newcomen engine.	What was the ideal duty of a Newcomen engine?.
average duty low-pressure watt engine.	What was the average duty of a low-pressure Watt engine?.
efficiency concept engine typically evaluated.	How was the efficiency of a concept engine typically evaluated?.
invented notion concept engine's duty.	Who invented the notion of a concept engine's duty?.
weight bushel engine pound.	What is the weight of a bushel of engines in pounds?.
ideal duty concept engine.	What was the ideal duty of a concept engine?.
average duty concept engine.	What was the average duty of a concept engine?.
type engine became popular power generation piston steam engine.	What type of engines became popular for power generation after piston steam engines?.
type steam engine produced power early 20th century.	What type of steam engines produced most power up to the early 20th century?.
type steam engine produce electricity world today.	What type of steam engine produces most electricity in the world today?.
along electric motors, type engine superseded piston steam engine.	Along with electric motors, what type of engines superseded piston steam engines?.
type engine became popular power generation electric engine.	What type of engines became popular for power generation after electric engines?.
type electric engine produced power early 20th century.	What type of electric engines produced most power up to the early 20th century?.
type electric engine produce electricity world today.	What type of electric engine produces most electricity in the world today?.
along electric motors, type engine superseded turbine.	Along with electric motors, what type of engines superseded turbines?.
continuing energy level far beyond turn 20th century.	What is continuing with energy levels far beyond the turn of the 20th century?.
developed first commercial steam powered device.	Who developed the first commercial steam powered device?.
first steam powered device used commercially.	What was the first steam powered device used commercially?.
year first commercial steam powered device invented.	In what year was the first commercial steam powered device invented?.
notably improved savery water pump.	Who notably improved the Savery water pump?.
wrote savery water pump 1751's philosophical transaction.	Who wrote of the Savery water pump in 1751's Philosophical Transactions?.
developed first commercial engine powered device.	Who developed the first commercial engine powered device?.
first textile device used commercially.	What was the first textile device used commercially?.
year first commercial textile device invented.	In what year was the first commercial textile device invented?.
notably improved smeaton water pump.	Who notably improved the Smeaton water pump?.
wrote smeaton water pump 1751's philosophical transaction.	Who wrote of the Smeaton water pump in 1751's Philosophical Transactions?.
invented high-pressure steam engine around 1800.	Who invented a high-pressure steam engine around 1800?.
created engine using high pressure steam 1801.	Who created an engine using high pressure steam in 1801?.
year richard trevithick patent device.	In what year did Richard Trevithick patent his device?.
high pressure steam engine small enough could used application.	High pressure steam engines were small enough that they could be used in what application?.
steam engine used source.	What were steam engines used as a source of?.
invented high-pressure power source around 1800.	Who invented a high-pressure power source around 1800?.
created engine using transport application 1801.	Who created an engine using transport applications in 1801?.
year oliver evans patent device.	In what year did Oliver Evans patent his device?.
high pressure power source small enough could used application.	High pressure power sources were small enough that they could be used in what application?.
manufacturing technique used source.	What were manufacturing techniques used as a source of?.
modern company notably working steam engine using modern material.	What modern company has been notably working on a steam engine using modern materials?.
energiprojekt ab based.	Where is Energiprojekt AB based?.
many cylinder energiprojekt ab engine.	How many cylinders does the Energiprojekt AB engine have?.
many pound steam per kilowatt hour energiprojekt ab engine use.	How many pounds of steam per kilowatt hour does the Energiprojekt AB engine use?.
percentage high pressure engine's efficiency energiprojekt ab engine achieved.	What percentage of a high pressure engine's efficiency has the Energiprojekt AB engine achieved?.
modern company notably working combustion engine using modern material.	What modern company has been notably working on a combustion engine using modern materials?.
high-pressure engine based.	Where are high-pressure engines based?.
many cylinder compound engine.	How many cylinders does the compound engine have?.
many pound steam per kilowatt hour internal combustion engine use.	How many pounds of steam per kilowatt hour does the internal combustion engine use?.
percentage high pressure engine's efficiency compound engine achieved.	What percentage of a high pressure engine's efficiency has the compound engine achieved?.
power station steam turbine use cold sink absence chp.	What do power station steam turbines use as a cold sink in the absence of CHP?.
device dry cooling tower similar.	What device is a dry cooling tower similar to?.
sort place dry cooling tower used.	In what sort of places are dry cooling towers used?.
evaporative cooling tower also referred kind cooling tower.	An evaporative cooling tower is also referred to as what kind of cooling tower?.
many cubic meter make-up water used 700-megawatt coal-fired power plant evaporative cooling hourly.	About how many cubic meters of make-up water is used by a 700-megawatt coal-fired power plant for evaporative cooling hourly?.
power station steam turbine use cold sink absence water.	What do power station steam turbines use as a cold sink in the absence of water?.
device energy removal similar.	What device is energy removal similar to?.
sort place river used.	In what sort of places are rivers used?.
water cooling tower also referred kind cooling tower.	A water cooling tower is also referred to as what kind of cooling tower?.
many cubic meter make-up water used 700-megawatt water-fired power plant evaporative cooling hourly.	About how many cubic meters of make-up water is used by a 700-megawatt water-fired power plant for evaporative cooling hourly?.
watt add steam engine 1788.	What did Watt add to the steam engine in 1788?.
name watt's partner.	What was the name of Watt's partner?.
centrifugal governor first observed boulton.	Where was the centrifugal governor first observed by Boulton?.
examine work centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine suitable.	What is an examine of work that a centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine wasn't suitable for?.
centrifugal governor incapable.	What was the centrifugal governor incapable of doing?.
watt add steam engine 19th century.	What did Watt add to the steam engine in 19th century?.
name watt's bos.	What was the name of Watt's boss?.
centrifugal governor first observed watt.	Where was the centrifugal governor first observed by Watt?.
example work centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine suitable.	What is an example of work that a centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine was suitable for?.
centrifugal change load incapable.	What were the centrifugal changes in load incapable of doing?.
year compounding frequently used marine engine.	After what year was compounding frequently used in marine engines?.
compounding popular construction machine.	Compounding was not popular in the construction of what machines?.
compounding seen locomotive construction industry.	What was compounding seen as being in the locomotive construction industry?.
year compounding cease used britain.	After what year did compounding cease to be used in Britain?.
along marine engine industrial units, machine compounding popular.	Along with marine engines and industrial units, in what machines was compounding popular?.
year compounding frequently used railway engine.	After what year was compounding frequently used in railway engines?.
compounding popular loading machine.	Compounding was not popular in the loading of what machines?.
compounding seen marine industry.	What was compounding seen as being in the marine industry?.
year marine locomotive cease used britain.	After what year did marine locomotives cease to be used in Britain?.
along marine engine industrial units, machine marine locomotive popular.	Along with marine engines and industrial units, in what machines were marine locomotives popular?.
another term shortening admission event.	What is another term for shortening the admission event?.
another term excessive compression.	What is another term for excessive compression?.
exhaust steam fully exhaust event insufficiently long.	What can the exhaust steam not fully do when the exhaust event is insufficiently long?.
length engine cycle event simplest valve gear used.	Of what length are engine cycle events when the simplest valve gears are used?.
another term shortening expansion event.	What is another term for shortening the expansion event?.
another term excessive shortening.	What is another term for excessive shortening?.
exhaust steam fully steam event insufficiently long.	What can the exhaust steam not fully do when the steam event is insufficiently long?.
length engine cycle event simplest exhaust compression used.	Of what length are engine cycle events when the simplest exhaust compression is used?.
simplest compression cylinder give engine cycle.	What do the simplest compression cylinders give during the engine cycle?.
received first steam engine patent.	Who received the first steam engine patent?.
nationality jerónimo de ayanz beaumont.	What was the nationality of Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont?.
year jerónimo de ayanz beaumont receive steam engine patent.	In what year did Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont receive a steam engine patent?.
year savery patent steam pump.	In what year did Savery patent his steam pump?.
year newcomen's engine pump mine.	In what year did Newcomen's engine pump in a mine?.
received first chamber engine patent.	Who received the first chamber engine patent?.
nationality thomas newcomen.	What was the nationality of Thomas Newcomen?.
year thomas newcomen receive steam engine patent.	In what year did Thomas Newcomen receive a steam engine patent?.
year newcomen patent steam pump.	In what year did Newcomen patent his steam pump?.
year savery's engine pump mine.	In what year did Savery's engine pump in a mine?.
another term rotor.	What is another term for rotors?.
steam turbine, rotor mounted.	In a steam turbine, what are rotors mounted on?.
another way referring stator.	What is another way of referring to stators?.
stator attached.	What are stators attached to?.
united states, usual turbine speed 60 hertz power.	In the United States, what is a usual turbine speed with 60 Hertz of power?.
another term turbine.	What is another term for turbines?.
steam turbine, disc mounted.	In a steam turbine, what are discs mounted on?.
another way referring power system.	What is another way of referring to power systems?.
rotor attache.	What are rotors attaches to?.
united states, maximum potential 60 hertz power.	IN the United States, what is a maximum potential with 60 Hertz of power?.
power-to-weight ratio steam plant compared internal combustion engine.	What is the power-to-weight ratio of a steam plant compared to that of an internal combustion engine?.
along internal combustion engines, machine superseded steam area.	Along with internal combustion engines, what machines have superseded steam in some areas?.
plant create electric power.	What plants create most electric power?.
name movement seek renewed use steam power modern era.	What is the name of the movement that seeks renewed use of steam power in the modern era?.
along fuel sources, concern contributed development advanced steam movement.	Along with fuel sources, what concern has contributed to the development of the Advanced Steam movement?.
power-to-weight ratio steam plant compared steam engine.	What is the power-to-weight ratio of a steam plant compared to that of a steam engine?.
along internal combustion engines, machine superseded power area.	Along with internal combustion engines, what machines have superseded power in some areas?.
plant create combustion power.	What plants create most combustion power?.
name movement seek renewed use combustion power modern era.	What is the name of the movement that seeks renewed use of combustion power in the modern era?.
along fuel sources, concern contributed development combustion movement.	Along with fuel sources, what concern has contributed to the development of the combustion movement?.
example rotary engine without piston.	What is an example of a rotary engine without pistons?.
part conventional reciprocating steam engine could replaced pistonless rotary engine.	What parts of a conventional reciprocating steam engine could be replaced by a pistonless rotary engine?.
along wear, development make difficult seal rotor engine lack piston.	Along with wear, what development makes it difficult to seal the rotors in an engine that lacks pistons?.
example rotary engine without leakage.	What is an example of a rotary engine without leakage?.
part conventional reciprocating steam engine could replaced pistonless valve gear.	What parts of a conventional reciprocating steam engine could be replaced by a pistonless valve gear?.
development, along wear, make difficult seal rotor engine lack steam.	What development, along with wear, makes it difficult to seal the rotors in an engine that lacks steam? .
problem.	What is not a problem?.
based pistonless rotary engine.	What is not based on a pistonless rotary engine?.
watt finish development improvement newcomen's engine.	When did Watt finish the development of his improvements to Newcomen's engine?.
watt add newcomen's engine 1763 1775.	What did Watt add to Newcomen's engine between 1763 and 1775?.
compared smeaton's improvement newcomen's engine, much coal watt's engine use.	Compared to Smeaton's improvement on Newcomen's engine, how much coal did Watt's engine use?.
addition watt, boulton smeaton, whose engine atmosphere design.	In addition to Watt, Boulton and Smeaton, whose engine was an atmosphere design?.
atmospheric engine, air pressure push.	In an atmospheric engine, what does air pressure push against?.
watt finish development improvement engine cylinder.	When did Watt finish the development of his improvements to engine cylinders?.
newcomen add wat's engine 1763 1775.	What did Newcomen add to Wat's engine between 1763 and 1775?.
compared smeaton's improvement newcomen's engine, much steam watt's engine use.	Compared to Smeaton's improvements on Newcomen's engine, how much steam did Watt's engine use?.
addition watt, boulton, smeaton, whose engine partial condenser design.	In addition to Watt, Boulton, and Smeaton, whose engine was a partial condenser design?.
condenser engine, air pressure push.	In a condenser engine, what does air pressure push against?.
many mechanism typical steam engine keep boiler pressure getting high.	How many mechanisms does a typical steam engine have to keep boiler pressure from getting too high?.
restrained lever top boiler.	What is restrained with a lever in the top of a boiler?.
type valve used recent safety valve.	What type of valve is used by recent safety valves?.
adjustable spring-loaded valve, need broken allow operator tamper.	In an adjustable spring-loaded valve, what needs to be broken to allow an operator to tamper with it?.
along desire steam pressure, early driver looking generate fastened safety valve.	Along with a desire for more steam pressure, what were early drivers looking to generate when they fastened safety valves down?.
many mechanism typical steam engine keep spring weight getting high.	How many mechanisms does a typical steam engine have to keep spring weight from getting too high?.
restrained lever top driver.	What is restrained with a lever in the top of a driver?.
type valve used recent spring.	What type of valve is used by recent springs?.
adjustable power engine, need broken allow operator tamper.	In an adjustable power engine, what needs to be broken to allow an operator to tamper with it?.
what, along desire steam pressure, early driver looking generate fastened engine.	What, along with a desire for more steam pressure, were early drivers looking to generate when they fastened engines down?.
ultimate development horizontal engine.	What was the ultimate development of the horizontal engine?.
year corliss engine patented.	In what year was the Corliss engine patented?.
many valve corliss engine use.	How many valves did the Corliss engine use?.
award given corliss.	What award was given to Corliss?.
much le steam corliss engine use compared watt engine.	How much less steam did the Corliss engine use compared to the Watt engine?.
ultimate development vertical engine.	What was the ultimate development of the vertical engine?.
year rumford engine patented.	In what year was the Rumford engine patented?.
many valve rumford engine use.	How many valves did the Rumford engine use?.
award inspired corliss.	What award was inspired by Corliss?.
much le steam rumford engine use compared watt engine.	How much less steam did the Rumford engine use compared to the Watt engine?.
scientific field's theory received contribution steam engine.	What scientific field's theory has received contributions from the steam engine?.
made experimental measurement model steam engine.	Who made experimental measurements on a model steam engine?.
developed watt's measurement model steam engine.	What was developed from Watt's measurements on a model steam engine?.
confirmed watt's discovery latent heat.	Who confirmed Watt's discovery of latent heat?.
concept, originally discovered black, later discovered independently watt.	What concept, originally discovered by Black, was later discovered independently by Watt?.
scientific field's theory received contribution rankine engine.	What scientific field's theory has received contributions from the Rankine engine?.
made experimental measurement model rankine cycle.	Who made experimental measurements on a model Rankine cycle?.
developed watt's measurement atmospheric concept.	What was developed from Watt's measurements on an atmospheric concept?.
confirmed watt's discovery mechanical heat.	Who confirmed Watt's discovery of mechanical heat?.
concept, originally discovered watt, later discovered independently black.	What concept, originally discovered by Watt, was later discovered independently by Black?.
main advantage rankine cycle.	What is a main advantage of the Rankine cycle?.
compression stage rankine cycle, state working fluid.	During the compression stage of the Rankine cycle, what state is the working fluid in?.
much turbine power consumed pump work fluid condensed.	How much turbine power is consumed by the pump while the work fluid is condensed?.
approximate turbine entry temperature gas turbine.	What is the approximate turbine entry temperature of a gas turbine?.
main advantage efficiency cycle.	What is a main advantage of the efficiency cycle?.
compression stage efficiency cycle, state working fluid.	During the compression stage of the efficiency cycle, what state is the working fluid in?.
much temperature consumed pump work fluid condensed.	How much temperature is consumed by the pump while the work fluid is condensed?.
approximate turbine entry temperature pump turbine.	What is the approximate turbine entry temperature of a pump turbine?.
result work required pump consume 0.5% turbine power.	What results in the work required by the pump to consume only 0.5% of the turbine power?.
example pump component.	What is an example of a pump component?.
addition recirculating water, condenser.	In addition to recirculating water, what do condensers do?.
component raise steam temperature saturated vapor point.	What components raise steam temperature above its saturated vapor point?.
another name coal supply bin.	What is another name for a coal supply bin?.
mechanism move coal bunker firebox.	What mechanism moves coal from a bunker to the firebox?.
example firebox.	What is an example of a firebox?.
addition recirculating water, bunker.	IN addition to recirculating water, what do bunkers do?.
component raise steam temperature saturated firebox point.	What components raise steam temperature above its saturated firebox point?.
another name firebox.	What is another name for a firebox?.
mechanism move coal firebox bunker.	What mechanism moves coal from a firebox to a bunker?.
frequent availability substance allowed land-based steam engine exhaust great deal steam.	The frequent availability of what substance allowed land-based steam engines to exhaust a great deal of steam?.
people nationality invented steam turbine.	People of what nationality invented the steam turbine?.
example type warship required high speed.	What was an example of a type of warship that required high speed?.
warships, ship typically required high speed.	Other than warships, what ships typically required high speeds?.
year hm dreadnought launched.	In what year was HMS Dreadnought launched?.
frequent availability substance allowed land-based steam engine exhaust great deal battleship.	The frequent availability of what substance allowed land-based steam engines to exhaust a great deal of battleships?.
people nationality invented hm dreadnought.	People of what nationality invented the HMS Dreadnought?.
example type warship required expansion engine.	What was an example of a type of warship that required expansion engines?.
ships, warships, typically required expansion engine.	What ships, other than warships, typically required expansion engines?.
year world war launched.	In what year was World War I launched?.
nuclear power plant heat create electricity.	What do nuclear power plants heat to create electricity?.
steam generated nuclear power plant drive.	What does the steam generated by a nuclear power plant drive?.
nuclear power plant, steam turbine connected.	In a nuclear power plant, what is the steam turbine connected to?.
called steam propels turbo generator electric motor propulsion.	What is it called when steam propels a turbo generator with electric motor propulsion?.
non-condensing direct-drive locomotive notably used fast passenger train.	Where were non-condensing direct-drive locomotives notably used for fast passenger trains?.
nuclear power plant heat create steam turbine.	What do nuclear power plants heat to create steam turbines?.
steam generated auxiliary power drive.	What does the steam generated by a auxiliary power drive?.
nuclear power plant diesel turbine connected.	What in a nuclear power plant is the diesel turbine connected to?.
called steam propels turbo generator diesel motor propulsion.	What is it called when steam propels a turbo generator with diesel motor propulsion?.
non-condensing direct-drive locomotive notably used fast passenger ship.	Where were non-condensing direct-drive locomotives notably used for fast passenger ships?.
rankine cycle sometimes called.	What is the Rankine cycle sometimes called?.
heat rejection occur rankine cycle.	Where does heat rejection occur in the Rankine cycle?.
isobaric mean.	What does isobaric mean?.
term mean constant temperature.	What is a term that means constant temperature?.
rankine cycle, state working fluid received condenser.	In the Rankine cycle, in what state is the working fluid received in the condenser?.
cycle condenser sometimes called.	What is the cycle condenser sometimes called?.
heat rejection occur rankine cycle.	Where does heat rejection occur in the Rankine cycle?.
carnot mean.	What does Carnot mean?.
term mean constant energy.	What is a term that means constant energy?.
rankine cycle, state working fluid received steam.	In the Rankine cycle, in what state is the working fluid received in the steam?.
atomic number periodic table oxygen.	The atomic number of the periodic table for oxygen?.
second abundant element.	What is the second most abundant element?.
gas make 20.8% earth's atmosphere.	Which gas makes up 20.8% of the Earth's atmosphere?.
many atom combine form dioxygen.	How many atoms combine to form dioxygen?.
roughly, much oxygen make earth crust.	Roughly, how much oxygen makes up the Earth crust?.
atomic number element oxygen.	What is the atomic number of the element oxygen?.
group periodic table oxygen member.	Of what group in the periodic table is oxygen a member?.
type compound oxygen commonly form.	What type of compounds does oxygen most commonly form?.
compared elements, abundant oxygen rank.	Compared to other elements, how abundant does oxygen rank?.
normal conditions, two atom oxygen form.	Under normal conditions, what do two atoms of oxygen form?.
element atomic symbol.	What element has an atomic symbol of O?.
element symbol number 8.	What element has a symbol number of 8?.
abundant element universe followed hydrogen helium.	What is the most abundant element in the universe followed by hydrogen and helium?.
constitutes 28.0% earth's atmosphere.	What constitutes 28.0% of the Earth's atmosphere?.
oxygen released cellular respiration.	Oxygen is released in cellular respiration by?.
photosynthesis us energy oxygen water.	Photosynthesis uses which energy to for oxygen from water?.
_____ help biospher uv..	_____ Helps the biospher from UV..
element found organic organism.	What element is found in most organic organisms?.
major portion living thing oxygen found.	In what major portion of living things is oxygen found?.
life process produce oxygen presence light.	What life process produces oxygen in the presence of light?.
photosynthesis get oxygen.	From what does photosynthesis get oxygen?.
form oxygen composed three oxygen atom.	What form of oxygen is composed of three oxygen atoms?.
example organic protein.	What are examples of organic proteins? .
used photosynthesis released cellular respiration.	What is used in photosynthesis and released by cellular respiration? .
absorbs ubv ray.	What absorbs UBV rays?.
ubv radiation form near surface.	What is UBV radiation a form of near the surface?.
proved air necessary combustion.	Who proved that air is necessary for combustion?.
english chemist showed fire needed nitoaereus.	What English chemist showed that fire only needed nitoaereus?.
consumed combustion respiration.	What is consumed in both combustion and respiration?.
john mayow died year.	John Mayow died in what year?.
researcher showed air necessity combustion.	What researcher showed that air is a necessity for combustion?.
john mayow name part air caused combustion.	What did John Mayow  name the part of air that caused combustion?.
century mayow boyle perform experiment.	In what century did Mayow and Boyle perform their experiments?.
besides combustion, action mayow show nitroaereus responsible.	Besides combustion, for what other action did Mayow show nitroaereus responsible?.
chemist showed fire needed part air.	What chemist showed that fire needed only a part of air?.
john mayow prove air necessary.	What did John Mayow prove that air is necessary for?.
year chemist john boyle alive.	What years was chemist John Boyle alive?.
robert mayow prove theory.	When did Robert Mayow prove his theories?.
refined robert mayow's work.	Who refined Robert Mayow's work?.
profession john boyle.	What was the profession of John Boyle?.
"an account discovery air" published 1775.	"An Account of Further Discoveries in Air" was published by who in 1775?.
occupation joseph priestley.	What was the occupation of Joseph Priestley?.
sunlight, compound priestley concentrate make gas called "dephlogisticated air".	By sunlight, what compound did  Priestley concentrate on to make the gas he called "dephlogisticated air"?.
symbol mercuric oxide.	The symbol for mercuric oxide is?.
chemical priestley use experiment oxygen.	What chemical did Priestley use in his experiments on oxygen?.
priestley name gas experiment produced.	What did Priestley name the gas his experiment produced?.
year priestley publish finding experiment.	In what year did Priestley publish the findings of his experiments?.
priestley usually given credit first discover oxygen.	Why is Priestley usually given credit for being first to discover oxygen?.
effect breathing priestley's discovered gas experiment's mouse.	What effect did breathing Priestley's discovered gas have on the experiment's mouse?.
conducted experiment august 4, 1774.	Who conducted an experiment on August 4, 1774?.
joseph priestley's august 4, 1774 experiment focus.	What did Joseph Priestley's August 4, 1774 experiment focus on?.
priestley publish 1774.	What did Priestley publish in 1774?.
priestley name air created.	What did Priestley name the air he created?.
inventor built finding philo byzantium.	What inventor built on to the findings of Philo of  Byzantium?.
pneumatica written greek writer.	Pneumatica was written by what Greek writer?.
year first known experiment combustion air conducted.	In what year was the first known experiments on combustion and air conducted?.
philo byzantium ____ surmised air converted fire.	Philo of Byzantium ____ surmised that air converted to fire.
early greek wrote experiment air combustion.	What early Greek wrote about experiments on air and combustion?.
philo incorrectly assume air became.	What did Philo incorrectly assume that the air became?.
title philo's work.	What was the title of Philo's work?.
famous artist later investigated philo's experiment.	What famous artist later further investigated Philo's experiments?.
da vinci think part consumed combustion.	Of what did da Vinci think a part  was consumed during combustion?.
type experiment philo pneumatica preform.	What type of experiment did Philo of Pneumatica preform?.
century philo pneumatica preform experiment involving combustion.	During what century did Philo of Pneumatica preform his experiments involving combustion?.
built philo pneumatica's work.	Who built on Philo of Pneumatica's work?.
nationality leonardo da vinci.	What nationality was Leonardo da Vinci?.
needed make combustion happen.	What is needed to make combustion happen?.
combustion caused oxidant fuel. role oxygen play combustion.	Combustion is caused by an oxidant and a fuel. What role does oxygen play in combustion?.
peroxides, nitrate dichromate example type compound.	Peroxides, nitrates and dichromates are examples of what type of compounds?.
although fuel ___ chemical compound generates occurrence explosions..	Although not a fuel  ___ is the chemical compound the generates the most occurrence of explosions..
concentrated oxygen produce.	What can concentrated oxygen produce?.
spark heat progress fire.	What is a spark or heat to the progress of a fire?.
rather fuel, oxygen fire.	Rather than the fuel, what is oxygen to a fire?.
oxygen basis combustion.	What does oxygen the basis for in combustion?.
source high oxidative potential add fire.	What other sources of high oxidative potential can add to a fire?.
rapid concentrated source oxygen promote.	What do rapid concentrated sources of oxygen promote?.
oxygen instead oxidant.	What is oxygen instead of an oxidant?.
fuel source.	What is fuel the source of?.
type hazard oxygen considered.	What type of hazard is oxygen considered? .
donate dichromate fire.	What can donate dichromates to a fire?.
______ liquid gas form fastly result exlposion..	______ In both liquid and gas form can fastly result in an exlposion..
ensure safety future space mission oxygen used _____ normal pressure..	To ensure safety of future space missions Oxygen was used at _____ of the normal pressure..
reduce chance combustion ___ required safely handeling pure o..	To reduce the chances of combustion ___ is required for safely handeling pure O..
concentrated oxygen greatly speed.	What will concentrated oxygen greatly speed up?.
danger inherent concentrated oxygen, concern keeping.	Because of the danger inherent in concentrated oxygen, what is a concern about keeping it?.
transport storage demand safety dealing oxygen.	What does the transport and storage demand for safety in dealing with oxygen?.
pressurized oxygen cabin fire kill.	Who did a pressurized oxygen cabin fire kill?.
steel pipe allow combustion proceed.	How will steel pipes allow combustion to proceed?.
type fire killed apollo 1 crew.	What type of fire killed the Apollo 1 crew?.
concentrated allow combustion.	What does concentrated O allow combustion to do?.
silicate magnesium iron make earth's ___.	Silicates of magnesium and iron make up of the Earth's ___.
granite made largely chemical compound.	Granite is made up largely of what chemical compound?.
oxygen exists atmosphere way.	Oxygen exists in the atmosphere by way of what?.
compound oxygen found small amount atmosphere.	In what compound is oxygen found in small amounts in the atmosphere?.
geologic feature composed oxygen oxide.	What geologic feature is composed of oxygen oxides?.
part earth composed mostly silicate iron magnesium.	What part of the Earth is composed of mostly of silicates of iron and magnesium?.
part earth's geological structure larger crust.	What part of the Earth's geological structure is larger than the crust?.
aside oxides, compound comprise large portion earth's crust.	Aside from oxides, what other compounds comprise a large portion of the Earth's crust?.
co.	What is CO? .
sio.	What is SiO?.
alo.	What is AlO?.
fe2o.	What is Fe2O?.
john dalton think element number present compound.	What did John Dalton think that all elements were in number present in compounds?.
dalton think atomic ratio atom compound.	What did Dalton think the atomic ratios were between atoms in compounds?.
dalton's erroneous formula water.	What was Dalton's erroneous formula for water?.
element gay-lussac von humboldt discover present twice amount oxygen water.	What element did Gay-Lussac and von Humboldt discover was present in twice the amount of oxygen in water?.
theory arrived 1811 presented assumption diatomic molecule.	What theory was arrived at in 1811 that presented the assumption of diatomic molecules?.
john dalton hypothesize 1805.	What did John Dalton hypothesize in 1805?.
dalton assume oh.	What did Dalton assume about OH?.
joseph louis von humboldt alexander gay-lussac show water.	What did Joseph Louis von Humboldt and Alexander Gay-Lussac show about water?.
year joseph louis von humboldt define formula water.	What year did Joseph Louis von Humboldt define the formula for water?.
law created 1805.	What law was created in 1805?.
material left little residue thought contain.	Of what were materials that left little residue thought to contain?.
type combustible material considered little philogiston.	What type of combustible materials were considered to have little philogiston?.
distinct quality combustion absent philogiston theory.	What distinct quality of combustion was  absent from philogiston theory? .
material's weight gain rusting early clue philogiston theory wrong.	What material's weight gain during rusting was an early clue that philogiston theory was wrong?.
characteristic due item display burning.	What characteristic due most items display after burning?.
iron found made mostly.	What was iron found to be made mostly of?.
highly combustible material corrode.	What highly combustible materials corrode?.
first clue phlogiston theory correct.	What was a first clue that the phlogiston theory was correct?.
iron thought lot.	Who was iron thought to have a lot of?.
dioxygen simply described.	How is dioxygen most simply described?.
bond order dioxygen molecule.	What is the bond order of dioxygen molecules?.
descriptive term low-to-high energy bond.	What is a descriptive term for a low-to-high energy bond?.
dioxygen two oxygen atom bonded together.	In dioxygen how are the two oxygen atoms bonded together?.
covalent double bond result.	Of what does the covalent double bond result from ?.
dioxygen covalent bond explained.	How is the dioxygen covalent bond explained?.
covalent bond result.	What is covalent bond a result of?.
axis 2p orbitals overlap.	What axis do the 2p orbitals overlap with?.
many pair 2p orbitals lie along o-o axis.	How many pairs of 2p orbitals lie along the O-O axis?.
carl wilhelm scheele discover oxygen.	When did Carl Wilhelm Scheele discover oxygen?.
year joseph priestley recognize oxygen.	In what year did Joseph Priestley recognize oxygen?.
gave priestley claim first discovered oxygen.	What gave Priestley the claim to being the first discovered of oxygen?.
researcher first used word oxygen.	What researcher first used the word oxygen ?.
previous work lavoisier experiment discredit.	What previous work did Lavoisier experiments discredit?.
carl priestly discover oxygen.	When did Carl Priestly discover oxygen?.
joseph scheele discover oxygen.	When did Joseph Scheele discover oxygen?.
coined name oxygen 1774.	Who coined the name oxygen in 1774?.
whose experiment oxygen led popular theory combustion corrosion.	Whose experiments with oxygen led to the popular theory of combustion and corrosion?.
term arrangement two unpaired electron dioxygen.	What is the term for the arrangement of two unpaired electrons in dioxygen?.
o2 molecule referred ground state.	How is the O2 molecule referred to in its ground state? .
cause triplet oxygen react slowly.	What causes triplet oxygen to react slowly?.
type combustion slow reaction triplet oxygen prevent.	What type of combustion does the slow reaction of triplet oxygen prevent?.
weakly filled higher orbitals oxygen.	What are the weakly filled higher orbitals of oxygen?.
ground state molecule referred.	What is the ground state of the O molecule referred to as?.
result dioxygen's triplet bond character.	What results in dioxygen's triplet bond character?.
double oxygen react slowly.	What does double oxygen react slowly with?.
double oxygen reacting slowly organic molecule prevent.	What does double oxygen reacting slowly with most organic molecules prevent?.
lavoisier conclude consumed combustion experiment.	What did Lavoisier conclude was consumed by combustion in his experiments?.
way lavoisier see tin used experiment increased.	In what way did Lavoisier see that the tin he used in his experiment had increased?.
lavoisier perceive air lost much tin gained.	What did Lavoisier perceive the air had lost as much as the tin had gained.
year lavoisier publish work combustion.	In what year did Lavoisier publish his work on combustion?.
second part air deemed lifeless lavoisier.	What second part of air was deemed lifeless by Lavoisier?.
another term vital air.	What is another term for vital air?.
english word nitrogen.	What is the English word for nitrogen?.
book, sur, published.	When was the book, Sur, published?.
name o3 often used.	What is the name for O3 most often used?.
ozone reactive part oxygen.	Of what is ozone a reactive part of oxygen?.
ozone's characteristic cause damage effect.	What  does ozone's characteristic to cause damage effect?.
function ozone perform planet.	What function does ozone perform for the planet?.
light radiation ozone absorb.	What light radiation does ozone absorb?.
trioxygen (o2) known.	What is trioxygen (O2) known as?.
another term upper atmosphere.	What is another term for the upper atmosphere?.
proven 2001 regard solid oxygen phase.	What was proven in 2001 in regard to the solid oxygen phase?.
discovered 2006 regard o4.	What was discovered in 2006 in regard to O4?.
common form oxygen planet.	What is the most common form of oxygen on the planet?.
scientific designation oxygen.	What is the scientific designation of oxygen? .
part composition earth's atmosphere comprised oxygen.	What part the composition of the Earth's atmosphere is comprised of oxygen?.
characteristic oxygen make necessary life.	What characteristic of oxygen makes it necessary to life?.
purpose oxygen used animal life.	For what purpose is oxygen used by animal life?.
oxygen earth, o, referred.	What is oxygen on Earth, O, referred to as?.
bond energy 121 pm.	What has a bond energy of 121 pm?.
bond length 498 kj·mol−1.	What has a bond length of 498 kJ·mol−1?.
animal use o2 biological respiration.	Why do animals use O2 for biological respiration?.
chemist managed make enough liquid oxygen use study.	What chemist managed to make enough liquid oxygen to use for study?.
year dewar experiment liquid oxygen.	In what year did Dewar experiment on liquid oxygen?.
liquid oxygen developed commercial use.	When was liquid oxygen developed for commercial use?.
welding process demonstrated 1901.	What welding process was demonstrated in 1901?.
produced enough oxygen study 1819.	Who produced enough oxygen to study in 1819?.
developed 1859.	What was developed in 1859?.
developed carl von hampson william linde.	What was developed by Carl von Hampson and William Linde?.
demonstrated first time 1910.	What was demonstrated for the first time in 1910?.
component water soluble nitrogen.	What component of water is more soluble than nitrogen?.
upon chemical characteristic oxygen's solubility dependent.	Upon what chemical characteristic is oxygen's solubility dependent?.
much oxygen found liter fresh water normal condition.	How much oxygen is found is a liter of fresh water under normal conditions?.
type water oxygen dissolve slowly.	In what type of water does oxygen dissolve more slowly?.
much oxygen dissolve 0 degree c 20 degree c.	How much more oxygen dissolves at 0 degrees C than at 20 degrees C?.
nitrogen water soluble.	What is nitrogen more water soluble than?.
air equilibrium water contain.	What does air in equilibrium with water contain?.
solubility water oxygen dependent.	What is the solubility water in oxygen dependent on?.
equivalent 103.1 kpa.	What is equivalent to 103.1 kPa?.
oxygen rank mass planet's biosphere.	Where does oxygen rank by mass in the planet's biosphere?.
oxygen ranked abundant universe.	How is oxygen ranked as abundant in the universe?.
much sun made oxygen.	How much of the sun is made up of oxygen?.
mass oxygen major part.	Where  by mass is oxygen a major part?.
oxygen produced carbon dioxide planet solar system.	How is oxygen produced from carbon dioxide on the other planets of the solar system?.
abundant mass element earth's biosphere.	What is the most abundant mass element in the Earth's biosphere? .
element follow oxygen abundant universe.	What elements follow oxygen as the most abundant in the universe?.
make 49.2% sun's mass.	What makes up 49.2% of the sun's mass?.
make 0.9% earth's crust mass.	What makes up 0.9% of the Earth's crust by mass?.
take 23.1% earth's mass.	What takes up 23.1% of the Earth's mass?.
century researcher see could liquefy air.	By what century did researchers see that they could liquefy air?.
mean scientist able liquefy air.	By what means were scientists able to liquefy air?.
scientist told french academy science found liquefy oxygen.	What scientist told the French Academy of Sciences that he had found how to liquefy oxygen?.
minor amount liquid oxygen produced early french experimenter.	What minor amount of liquid oxygen was produced by early French experimenters?.
date oxygen liquefied stable form.	On what date was oxygen liquefied in a stable form?.
pierre raoul pictet's profession.	What were Pierre Raoul Pictet's professions?.
sent december 29, 1877.	What was sent on December 29, 1877?.
liquified stable state first time march 22, 1883.	What was liquified in a stable state for the first time on March 22, 1883?.
liquified oxygen stable state march 22, 1883.	Who liquified oxygen in a stable state on March 22, 1883?.
university zygumunt olszewski karol wroblewski.	What university were Zygumunt Olszewski and Karol Wroblewski from?.
celestial object eluded effort measure oxygen.	What celestial object eluded efforts to measure oxygen?.
molecule sun higher proportion earth.	What molecule does the Sun have in higher proportion than Earth?.
spacecraft contained data determine oxygen content sun.	What spacecraft contained data to determine the oxygen content of the Sun?.
type process involved depletion sun's oxygen 16.	What type of process was involved the the depletion of the Sun's oxygen 16?.
formation planet, sol lose oxygen 16.	Before the formation of which planet, did Sol lose oxygen 16?.
genesis geologist measured oxygen isotope.	Where have Genesis geologists measured oxygen isotopes?.
genesis geologist unable measure oxygen.	Where were Genesis geologists unable to measure oxygen?.
planetary spacecraft analyze.	What did the Planetary spacecraft analyze?.
earth higher proportion oxygen-16.	What does the Earth have a higher proportion of oxygen-16 than?.
name form oxygen electron paired.	What is the name for a form of oxygen in which electrons are paired?.
singlet oxygen reactive.	To what is singlet oxygen more reactive?.
process singlet oxygen usually formed.	In what process is singlet oxygen usually formed?.
process singlet oxygen made tropophere.	By what process is singlet oxygen made in the tropophere?.
object organism absorb singlet oxygen prevent harm.	What objects in organisms absorb singlet oxygen to prevent harm?.
formed nature energy photosynthesis.	What is formed in nature from energy during photosynthesis?.
paired oxygen.	What is paired oxygen?.
paired oxygen produced.	Where is paired oxygen produced?.
play major role absorbing oxygen.	What plays a major role in absorbing oxygen?.
group scientist seek measure amount oxygen marine animal.	What group of scientists seek to measure the amounts of oxygen in marine animals?.
weather feature paleoclimatologists want information.	About what weather feature do paleoclimatologists want information ?.
much heavier oxygen 18 oxygen 16.	How much heavier is oxygen 18 than oxygen 16?.
form oxygen marine animal acquire greater amount cooler climatic condition.	What form of oxygen do marine animals acquire in greater amounts during cooler climatic conditions?.
type climate oxygen 18 seawater higher level.	During what type of climate is oxygen 18 in seawater at higher levels?.
measure oxygen-18 oxygen-16 skeleton organism.	Who measures oxygen-18 and oxygen-16 in skeletons of all organisms?.
oxygen-16 lighter one.	What is oxygen-16 the lighter one of?.
much lighter oxygen-18.	How much lighter is oxygen-18?.
water higher oxygen-16 experienced higher.	Water higher in oxygen-16 experienced higher what?.
wavelength spectrophotometric band peak.	At what wavelength do the spectrophotometric bands peak?.
monitor event would measuring radiance vegetation provide information.	To monitor what event would measuring radiance from vegetation provide information?.
would scientist like measure vegetation radiance.	From where would scientists like measure vegetation radiance?.
scale would scientist show measurement vegetation.	On what scale would scientists show measurements of vegetation?.
style sensing scientist like use measure global radiance.	What style of sensing do scientist like to use to measure global radiance?.
peak 680 768 nm wavelength.	What peaks at 680 and 768 nm wavelengths?.
scientist proposed using characterize plant platform status.	What have scientists proposed using to characterize plant platform status?.
difficult satellite-to-noise ratio.	What is difficult with a satellite-to-noise ratio?.
magnetic character triplet o2.	What magnetic character do triplet O2 have?.
experiments, bridge element built pole magnet.	In experiments, a bridge of what element can be built between poles of a magnet?.
spin produce magnetic effect oxygen molecule.	The spin of what can produce a magnetic effect to oxygen molecules?.
kind field necessary produce magnet effect oxygen molecule.	What kind of field is necessary to produce a magnet effect in oxygen molecules?.
device used test magnetic attraction involved liquid oxygen.	What device is used to test the magnetic attractions involved in liquid oxygen?.
molecule triplet form.	What are O molecules in triplet form?.
molecule paramagnetic.	Why are O molecules paramagnetic?.
attracted pole powerful magnet.	What is attracted to the poles of a powerful magnet?.
reactive form oxygen produce organism.	What do the reactive forms of oxygen produce in organisms?.
purpose organism make peroxide superoxide.	For what purpose do organisms make peroxide and superoxide?.
reactive oxygen play plant defense.	Against what does reactive oxygen play in plant defense?.
type organism oxygen toxic.	To what type of organisms is oxygen toxic?.
o2 begin acculturate atmosphere.	When did O2 begin to acculturate in the atmosphere?.
2h02.	What is 2H02?.
formula reactive oxygen ion.	What is formula for the reactive oxygen ion?.
product oxygen use organism.	What are products of oxygen use in organisms? .
began accumulate 5.2 billion year ago.	What began to accumulate 5.2 billion years ago?.
event occurred 5.2 billion year ago.	What event occurred 5.2 billion years ago?.
temperature oxygen condense.	At what temperature will oxygen condense?.
clarity liquid oxygen.	What is the clarity of liquid oxygen?.
substance used make high quality liquid o2.	What substance is used to make high quality liquid O2?.
element used coolant process making liquid oxygen.	What element is used as a coolant in the process of making liquid oxygen?.
type material must liquid oxygen separated.	From what type of materials must liquid oxygen be separated?.
condenses 54.36 k.	What condenses at 54.36 K?.
freeze 90.20 k.	What freezes at 90.20 K?.
red liquid solid state.	What is red in both the liquid and solid states?.
o2 appear red.	Why does the O2 appear red?.
earth free oxygen found.	Where on Earth is free oxygen found?.
temperature o2 soluble.	At what temperatures is O2 more soluble?.
polar water body support higher amount life.	Why do polar water bodies support a higher amount of life?.
measurement scientist used determine quality water.	What measurement do scientists used to determine the quality of water?.
pollution water nitrate phosphate encourage growth.	Pollution of water by nitrates and phosphates will encourage the growth of what?.
polar ocean support reduced amount life.	Why do polar oceans support reduced amounts of life?.
pollution process stimulates growth nitrate.	What pollution process stimulates the growth of nitrates?.
reduce density o2 eutrophic water body.	What can reduce density of O2 in eutrophic water bodies?.
phosphate growth nitrate.	What do phosphates do to the growth of nitrates?.
photosynthetic organism evolve earth.	When did photosynthetic organisms evolve on Earth?.
eon free oxygen begin appearing quantity.	During which eon did free oxygen begin appearing in quantity?.
first, oxygen iron combine form.	At first, what did oxygen and iron combine to form?.
long ago oxygen reach 10% present level.	How long ago did oxygen reach 10% of its present level?.
oxygen begin move ocean atmosphere.	When did oxygen begin to move from the oceans to the atmosphere?.
evolved 5.3 billion year ago.	What evolved 5.3 billion years ago?.
eon took place 3.3 2.0 billion year ago.	What eon took place between 3.3 and 2.0 billion years ago?.
happened 3.7-2 billion year ago.	What happened 3.7-2 billion years ago?.
oxygen reach 1.2 billion year ago.	What did oxygen reach 1.2 billion years ago?.
produce high level oxygen earth.	What produces the high levels of oxygen on Earth?.
type process oxygen cycle.	What type of process is the oxygen cycle?.
many place oxygen stored cycle.	In how many places is oxygen stored in its cycle?.
process responsible planet's oxygen content.	What process is responsible for the planet's oxygen content?.
photosynthesis release earth's atmosphere.	What does photosynthesis release into the Earth's atmosphere?.
respiration release atmosphere.	What does respiration release into the atmosphere?.
three main oxygen cycle earth.	What are the three main oxygen cycles on Earth?.
occurs rate 1/200th entire atmospheric oxygen per year.	What occurs at the same rate of 1/200th of the entire atmospheric oxygen per year?.
oxygen reservoir driving factor oxygen cycle.	What oxygen reservoir is the driving factor of the oxygen cycle?.
mechanism used make oxygen.	What mechanism can be used to make oxygen?.
percentage oxygen zeolite sieve produce.	What percentage of oxygen will a zeolite sieve produce?.
producing oxygen, gas zeolite sieve absorb.	While producing oxygen, what gas does a zeolite sieve absorb?.
type technology non organic separating gas.	What type of technology is the non organic separating of gases?.
much sieve method gas production used.	How much is the sieve method of gas production used?.
bed nitrogen-saturated.	What beds are nitrogen-saturated? .
known swing pressure adsorption.	What is known as swing pressure adsorption?.
involves delivering gas stream 9% 93% o2.	What involves delivering a gas stream that is 9% to 93% O2?.
electrolysis used produce oxygen hydrogen.	Electrolysis of what can be used to produce oxygen and hydrogen?.
electrolysis water produce.	What does the electrolysis of water produce?.
type electric current needed electrolysis.	What type of electric current is needed for electrolysis?.
source oxygen production electrocatalytic mean.	What is the source of oxygen production through electrocatalytic means?.
catalyst used produce oxygen.	What other catalysts can be used to produce oxygen?.
produced electrolysis molecular water.	What can be produced through electrolysis of molecular water?.
must dc electricity used.	Why must DC electricity not be used?.
chemical catalyst used electrocatalytic o2 evolution.	What chemical catalysts can be used in electrocatalytic O2 evolution?.
oxoacids evolve.	What do oxoacids evolve from?.
euphoric oxygen used bar.	As a euphoric how is oxygen used in bars?.
effect human oxygen.	What is the effect on humans of oxygen?.
professional athlete seek boost breathing oxygen.	What do professional athletes seek to boost from breathing oxygen?.
type exercise research show receives boost performance oxygen.	What type of exercise does research show receives a boost in performance from oxygen?.
likely effect breathing oxygen.	What is the most likely effect of breathing oxygen?.
considered recreational euphoric.	What is considered to be a recreational euphoric?.
establishment around since 1990.	What establishments have been around since 1990?.
oxygen bar since 1990.	Where have oxygen bars been since 1990?.
type pharmacological effect likely explanation "boost" oxygen.	What type of pharmacological effect is most likely an explanation for the "boost" from oxygen?.
device used treat various condition carbon monoxide poisoning.	What device is used to treat various conditions such as carbon monoxide poisoning?.
increased oxygen concentration patient's lung displace.	What does increased oxygen concentrations in the patient's lungs displace?.
pathogen cause gas gangrene oxygen poisonous.	To what pathogen that causes gas gangrene is oxygen poisonous?.
occurs dive diver decompresses quickly.	What occurs after a dive in which a diver decompresses too quickly?.
medicine hyperbaric chamber use.	What medicines to do hyperbaric chambers use?.
treated medical chamber.	What is treated with medical chambers?.
carbon monoxide poisonous cause gas gangrene.	What is carbon monoxide poisonous to that can cause gas gangrene?.
decompression oxygen sickness occur.	Who does decompression oxygen sickness occur in?.
process uptake oxygen necessary.	In what process is the uptake from oxygen necessary?.
medical treatment used increase oxygen uptake patient.	What medical treatment is used to increase oxygen uptake in a patient?.
decreasing resistance blood flow lungs, organ's workload eased.	By decreasing resistance to blood flow in the lungs, what organ's workload  can be eased?.
medical treatment used benefit patient hearth lung disorder.	What medical treatment is used to benefit patients with hearth and lung disorders?.
oxygen therapy promote body take.	What does  oxygen therapy promote the body to take up?.
essential purpose supplementation.	What is the essential purpose of supplementation? .
field respiration used.	What field is respiration used in?.
oxygen respiration therapy used treat.	What is oxygen respiration therapy used to treat?.
treatment.	What does treatment only do?.
characteristic oxygen cause form bond element.	What characteristic of oxygen causes it to form bonds with other elements?.
usual form oxygen bound compound.	What is usual form of oxygen bound compounds?.
mineral wustite.	What is the mineral wustite?.
oxygen cause form metal.	What does oxygen cause to form on metals?.
film oxide metal delay.	What does the film of oxide on metals delay?.
oxygen form bond type.	What does oxygen form bonds with all other types of?.
oxygen form bond type element.	Why does oxygen form bonds with all other types of elements?.
mineral written fe1 - ox.	What mineral is written as Fe1 - oX?.
x fe1 - ox.	What is X in Fe1 - oX?.
event would necessitate airline passenger need supplemental supply oxygen.	What event would necessitate airline passengers to need a supplemental supply of oxygen? .
type oxygen production emergency oxygen airline.	What is the type of oxygen production for emergency oxygen in airlines?.
type reaction present emergency oxygen generator airplane.	What type of reaction is present in the emergency oxygen generator of an airplane?.
gas airline exothermic reaction produce.	What gas does the airline exothermic reaction produce?.
sometimes supplemental supply.	Who sometimes have supplemental O supplies?.
emergency supply.	Who has an emergency supply of O?.
case cabin pressurization, available passenger.	In case of cabin pressurization, what is available to passengers?.
type reaction produce oxygen plane cabin.	What type of reaction produces oxygen in plane cabins?.
oxygen tanks, cryogenics, chemical compound serve oxygen.	What do oxygen tanks, cryogenics, and chemical compounds serve as for oxygen?.
state oxygen shipped bulk.	In what state is oxygen shipped in bulk?.
mean bulk oxygen shipped.	By what means is bulk oxygen shipped?.
form oxygen transported smaller container.	In what form is oxygen transported in smaller containers?.
type organization would need large quantity pure oxygen.	What type of organization would need large quantities of pure oxygen?.
cryogenic chemical compound storage method.	What is the cryogenic and chemical compound storage method?.
oxygen often transported cryogenics.	Why is oxygen often transported in cryogenics?.
equivalent 804 liter gaseous oxygen.	What is equivalent to 804 liters of gaseous oxygen?.
must 28°c.	What must be at 28°C?.
type compound acetone,contain oxygen.	What type of compounds such as acetone,contain oxygen?.
group compound oxygen necessary part.	In what group of compounds is oxygen a necessary part?.
function compound like phenol acetone serve manufacture many substance.	What function do compounds like phenol and acetone serve in the manufacture of many other substances?.
compound oxygen part ring arrangement.	In what compound is oxygen part of a ring arrangement?.
compound contain oxygen considered commerce.	How are the compounds that contain oxygen considered in commerce?.
important solvent contain oxygen.	What important solvents contain oxygen?.
compound contain oxygen.	What compounds contain oxygen?.
o-r-o.	What is O-R-O?.
r-oc-r.	What is R-OC-R?.
r-ooc-r.	What is R-OOC-R?.
type molecule oxygen found.	In what type of molecules are oxygen found?.
many biomolecules contain oxygen.	How many biomolecules contain no oxygen?.
organic compound contain greatest amount oxygen mass.	Which organic compounds contain the greatest amount of oxygen by mass?.
besides fats, fatty acids, amino acids,what organic compound contain oxygen.	Besides fats, fatty acids, and amino acids,what other organic compounds contain oxygen?.
calcium containing body part oxygen part.	In what calcium containing body part is oxygen a part?.
element found biomolecules.	What element is found in all biomolecules? .
element squalene carotene contain.	What element do squalene and the carotenes contain?.
apt adp.	What are APT and ADP?.
carbohydrate mass.	What do carbohydrates have the most of by mass?.
health condition deep sea diving cause.	What health condition can deep sea diving cause?.
use prolonged breathing oxygen 60 kpa lead.	To what can the use of prolonged breathing of oxygen at 60 kPa lead?.
pressure greater lead convulsion.	Pressures greater than what can lead to convulsions?.
feared condition diver want avoid.	What is the most feared condition that divers want to avoid?.
physical condition acute oxygen toxicity cause.	What physical condition can acute oxygen toxicity cause?.
happen breathing oxygen 60 atm.	What can happen when breathing in oxygen with 60 atm?.
exposure partial gas pressure greater 166 kpa cause.	What can exposure to partial gas pressures greater than 166 kPa cause?.
happen breathing 26% o2 62.	What can happen when breathing 26% O2 at 62 m?.
occur breathing 100% o2.	What can occur from breathing 100% O2?.
breathing oxygen space craft dangerous health.	Why is breathing oxygen in space craft not dangerous to health?.
oxygen partial pressure space suit.	What is the oxygen partial pressure of space suits?.
much normal oxygen breathed space suit.	How much of normal is the oxygen breathed in space suits?.
si comparison sea level oxygen level space suit.	What si the comparison to sea level with the oxygen level in space suits?.
much damage breathing oxygen space condition cause.	How much damage does breathing oxygen in space conditions cause?.
damage caused breathing pure space application.	What damage was caused by breathing pure O in space applications?.
damage caused breathing pure space application.	Why was no damage caused by breathing pure O in space applications?.
measure 1.4 kpa.	What measures at 1.4 kPa?.
partial pressure breathing gas.	What is the partial pressure of O in breathing gas?.
oxygen gas produce toxic condition.	When can oxygen gas produce a toxic condition?.
point oxygen toxicity begin happen.	At what point does oxygen toxicity begin to happen?.
50 kilopascals equal.	To what is 50 kilopascals equal?.
medical appliance concern oxygen toxicity.	What medical appliance can be a concern for oxygen toxicity?.
percentage oxygen usually supplied medical mask.	What percentage of oxygen is usually supplied by a medical mask?.
partial oxygen toxic.	When can partial oxygen be toxic?.
equal 5% oxygen consumption.	What is equal to 5% oxygen consumption?.
kap stand.	What does kAp stand for?.
composed 21%-50% o2 volume.	What is composed of 21%-50% O2 by volume?.
1973 oil crisis begin.	When did the 1973 oil crisis begin?.
price oil march 1974.	What was the price of oil in March of 1974?.
second oil crisis.	When was the second oil crisis?.
another term used oil crisis.	What was another term used for the oil crisis?.
proclaimed oil embargo.	Who proclaimed the oil embargo?.
opec begin.	When did OPEC begin?.
action u begin started second oil shock.	What action did the US begin that started the second oil shock?.
price oil 1979 rose.	What was the price of oil in 1979 before it rose?.
price oil rise 1979 globally.	What did the price of oil rise to in 1979 globally?.
term describes happened 1979 u price oil higher.	What is the term that describes what  happened in 1979 when the US prices of oil were higher?.
month oil crisis begin.	What month did the oil crisis begin? .
oapec include.	Who did OAPEC include? .
oil crisis called.	What was the oil crisis called.
came oil crisis.	What came after this oil crisis? .
caused crisis.	What caused the crisis? .
european nation japan separated united state crisis.	Why did the European nations and Japan separated themselves from United States during the crisis?.
nixon administration negotiate uncooperative country.	How did the Nixon administration negotiate with the uncooperative countries?.
date henry kissinger negotiate israeli troop withdrawal sinai peninsula.	On what date did Henry Kissinger negotiate an Israeli troop withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula?.
arab oil producer lift embargo.	When did the Arab oil producers lift the embargo?.
crisis impact arab.	How did the crisis impact Arabs?.
israel syria avoid targeted boycott.	What did Israel and Syria do to avoid being targeted by the boycott?.
arab oil producer link japan.	What did Arab oil producers link to Japan?.
nato negotiate.	What did NATO negotiate?.
japan lift march 1974.	What did Japan lift in March 1974?.
oil crisis create rift within.	What did the oil crisis create a rift within? .
european nation country disassociated u reason.	European nations and which country disassociated themselves from the US for this reason? .
linked future policy change peace.	Who linked any future policy changes to peace? .
negotiation nixon administration begin.	What negotiations did Nixon Administrations begin?.
country pull back sinai peninsula.	Which country was to pull back from the Sinai Peninsula?.
united state withdraw bretton wood accord.	When did the United States withdraw from the Bretton Woods Accord?.
mean currency left "float".	What does it mean when currencies are left to "float?".
depreciation industrialized nation dollar.	Why was there a depreciation of the industrialized nations dollars?.
oil start getting priced term gold.	When did oil start getting priced in the terms of gold?.
oil start getting priced term gold.	Why did oil start getting priced in terms of gold?.
year opec pull bretton wood accord.	In what year did OPEC pull out of the Bretton Woods Accord?.
happened currency value u abandoned oil.	What happened to other currencies value when the US abandoned oil?.
britain september 1971.	What did Britain do in September 1971?.
opec dollar depriciate.	Why did OPEC dollars depriciate?.
oil priced based pound sterling.	When was oil priced based on pound sterling?.
u withdraw 1971.	What did the US withdraw from in 1971? .
u abandon.	What did the US abandon? .
dollar value.	What does the dollar value do? .
mean dollar float.	What does it mean for the dollar to float? .
opec issue joint communique.	When did OPEC  issue a joint communique? .
1947 1967, much price oil increase.	From 1947 to 1967, how much did the price of oil increase?.
opec start readjust oil price.	When did OPEC start to readjust oil prices?.
oil finally returned bretton wood level.	When did oil finally returned to its Bretton Woods levels?.
price oil usually stable commodity.	The price of oil is usually a stable commodity until when?.
much price gold risen 1971.	How much had the price of gold risen after 1971?.
oil shock price gold.	Until the oil shock how had the price of gold been?.
happened bretton wood income due price sync market.	What happened to Bretton Woods income due to prices not being in sync with the market?.
institutional mechanism finally return bretton wood level.	When did institutional mechanisms finally return to Bretton Woods levels?.
commodity readjust oil price.	When did commodities readjust to oil prices?.
slow readjust price.	Who was slow to readjust prices? .
year dollar price oil rise 2% per year.	What years did the dollar price of oil rise by 2% per year? .
happened 1973-1974.	What happened in 1973-1974?.
price remained stable.	Prices remained stable until what?.
syria egypt launch surprise attack israel.	When did Syria and Egypt launch a surprise attack on Israel?.
world's second largest oil producer.	Who was the world's second largest oil producer?.
many time nation pay oil surprise attack.	How many times more did the other nations have to pay for oil after the surprise attack?.
oil producer close ally united state.	Which oil producer is a close ally of the United States?.
shah iran gave interview.	Why did the Shah of Iran gave an interview?.
iran yom kippur october 6, 1973.	What did Iran do on Yom Kippur on October 6, 1973?.
world second largest wheat exporter middle east.	Who was the worlds second largest wheat exporter to the middle east?.
syria decide price oil attack.	What did Syria decide that the price of oil should be after the attack?.
egypt say iran increased price wheat sell.	What did Egypt say that Iran increased the price of wheat they sell by?.
syria sell refined oil middle east.	What does Syria sell refined oil for to the middle east?.
happened october 6, 1973 syria egypt.	What happened on October 6, 1973 with Syria and Egypt? .
holiday syria egypt launch attack.	What holiday did Syria and Egypt launch an attack? .
iran size oil exporter.	Iran was which size oil exporter?.
iran's relationship u time.	What was Iran's relationship with the US at this time? .
much say fair raise price.	How much did they say it was fair to raise the prices? .
opec raise price oil $5.11.	Why did OPEC raise the price of oil to $5.11?.
raise price oil $5.11.	When did they raise the price of oil to $5.11?.
oil minister agree cut oil production.	Why did the oil ministers agree to a cut in oil production?.
much emergency aid israel.	How much was the emergency aid to Israel?.
opec block oil delivery united state.	Why did OPEC block oil deliveries to the United States?.
geroge lenczowski price oil october 16, 1973.	What did Geroge Lenczowski do to the price of oil on October 16, 1973?.
various country request congress.	What did various countries request of Congress?.
decision triggered response principal hostile country.	What decision triggered a response from a principal hostile country?.
announcement made immediately kuwait.	What was the announcement made immediately by Kuwait?.
nixon join october 20, 1973.	What did Nixon join on October 20, 1973?.
opec price oil october 16th.	OPEC did what to the prices of oil on October 16th?.
percentage opec raise price oil.	What percentage did OPEC raise the price of oil?.
price oil raise.	What was the price of oil after the raise? .
announced would embargo oil shipment u.	Who announced it would embargo oil shipments to the US?.
saudi arabia join embargo.	When did Saudi Arabia join the embargo? .
much saudi arabia spend spreading wahhabism.	How much did Saudi Arabia spend on spreading Wahhabism?.
group benefited fund distributed religious charity, al-haramain foundation.	Which group benefited from the funds distributed by the religious charity, al-Haramain Foundation?.
income went purchase arm exacerbated political tension especially area.	Some of the income went to the purchase of arms which exacerbated political tension especially in which area?.
one reason underdeveloped nation received aid oil income.	What is one of the reason that underdeveloped nations received aid from the oil income?.
fundamentalist interpretation islam called.	What is a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam called?.
much saudi arabia spend western demand oil.	How much did Saudi Arabia spend on Western demand for oil?.
export commodity used oil purchase helped create tension.	Some of the export commodities that were used for oil purchases helped create tensions where?.
saudi arabia spend 100 billion oil price.	When did Saudi Arabia spend 100 billion on oil prices?.
fundamentalist interpretation al-haramain called.	What is a fundamentalist interpretation of al-Haramain called?.
one reason al-qaeda received aid sunni extremist.	What is one reason that Al-Qaeda received aid from Sunni extremists?.
one reason u production held responsible recession lower economic growth.	What is one of the reason that US production has been held responsible for recessions and lower economic growth?.
u concerned confrontation middle east country.	US is concerned about confrontation of the Middle East with which other country?.
scholar stated already existing settlement 2 party prior date.	Scholars stated that there was already an existing settlement between 2 parties prior to which date?.
interest group government agency concerned energy match.	Interest groups and government agencies that were concerned with energy were no match for who?.
ussr held responsible regarding oil.	What has the USSR been held responsible for regarding oil?.
u concerned inflation.	What is the US concerned more about than inflation?.
middle east match.	What was the Middle East not a match for?.
already existed ussr 1973.	What already existed in the USSR before 1973?.
ussr u worried.	What was the USSR and the US more worried about?.
negative influence u economy.	What has a negative influence over the US economy?.
international level, industry's competitive position affected.	On an international level, which industry's competitive positions is affected? .
problem consists inflationary deflationary impact.	Which problem consists of both  inflationary and deflationary impacts?.
oil crisis caused oil company increase oil supply area.	The oil crisis caused oil companies to increase oil supplies in which area?.
long take new area significant oil production.	How long does it take for new areas to have significant oil production?.
developing new oil field negative influence.	What did developing new oil fields have a negative influence on?.
developing new oil field influence u economy.	How did developing new oil fields influence the US economy?.
energy security international level.	What did energy security do on an international level?.
problem consists trying increase oil supply threat u energy security.	What problem consists of trying to increase oil supplies and threats to US energy security?.
macroeconomic problem cause oil company search.	What did macroeconomic problems cause oil companies to search for?.
country faced complete embargo eec.	Which country faced a complete embargo in the EEC?.
uk france non interruption oil supply allow country use airfield.	The UK and France had non interruptions in their oil supply as they did not allow which country to use their airfield?.
country traditional ally israel.	Which country is a traditional ally of Israel?.
harold winston's supported country's six day war.	Harold WInston's supported which country's during its six day war?.
wanted israel withdraw border.	Who wanted Israel to withdraw from its border?.
embargo like israel.	What was the embargo like in Israel?.
netherlands let america use embargo.	What did the Netherlands not let America use during the embargo?.
eec support six-day war.	Who did the EEC support during the Six-Day War?.
france traditional ally.	Who is France a traditional ally of?.
harold wilson call israel 1970.	What did Harold Wilson call for Israel to do in 1970?.
country badly hit embargo.	Which country is not badly hit by the embargo?.
caused uk oil crisis country.	What caused UK to have an oil crisis in its own country?.
series strike happen.	When did the series of strikes happen?.
name one country banned boating, driving flying sundays..	Name one country that banned boating, driving and flying on Sundays..
country rationed gasoline heating gas.	Which country rationed gasoline and heating gas?.
uk ban sunday due embargo.	What did the UK ban on Sundays due to the embargo?.
rationed railroad worker.	What was rationed by railroad workers?.
happened uk used ration electricity.	What happened in the UK if you used more than your ration of electricity?.
country affected change government.	What country is not that affected by the change of government?.
heath ask norway winter.	What did Heath ask Norway to do over the winter?.
made oil crisis worse u.	What made the oil crisis worse in the US?.
newly discovered oil sold higher price.	Why are newly discovered oil sold at a higher price?.
old oil withdrawn market.	Why was old oil withdrawn from the market?.
scarcity managed many country.	How was scarcity managed in many countries?.
old oil sold higher price.	Why was old oil sold at a higher price?.
happened new oil withdrawn market.	What happened when new oil was withdrawn from the market?.
rationing intended promote market.	What was rationing intended to promote in the market?.
action taken address price control.	What action was taken to address price controls?.
old oil affect motorist many country.	How did old oil affect motorists in many countries?.
first administrator federal energy office.	Who is the first administrator of the Federal Energy Office?.
elected nixon.	When was he elected by Nixon?.
short termed organization created.	Why was this short termed organization created?.
according aaa, percentage gas station ran gasoline.	According to the AAA, what is the percentage of the gas stations that ran out of gasoline?.
percentage american gas station fuel 1973.	What percentage of American gas stations were out of fuel in 1973?.
1973 nixon named.	In 1973 what was Nixon named as?.
american automobile association created.	What was the American Automobile Association created to do?.
much oil nixon give state 1974.	How much oil did Nixon give to states in 1974?.
common state without population increase.	What was common in states without population increases?.
speed limit set reduce consumption.	What is the speed limit set to reduce consumption?.
name law imposed speed limit.	What is the name of the law which imposed the speed limit?.
president ended emergency energy conservation act.	Which president ended the Emergency Energy Conservation Act?.
national highway designated act signed.	When was the National Highway Designated Act signed?.
cabinet-level energy department created.	When was the cabinet-level Energy Department created?.
imposed november 28 1995 emergency highway energy conservation act.	What was imposed on November 28 1995 by the Emergency Highway Energy Conservation Act?.
name president imposed speed limit.	What is the name of the President that imposed the speed limit?.
department energy end 1974.	What did the Department of Energy end in 1974?.
novermber 28, 1995 department energy end.	On Novermber 28, 1995 what did the Department of Energy end?.
speed national highway designation act prevent going beyond.	What speed did the National Highway Designation Act prevent you from going beyond?.
catalyst created greater interest renewable resource.	What was the catalyst that created greater interest in renewable resources?.
criticism energy policy expensive quick fix ignore fact.	There is criticism that the energy policies are expensive quick fixes that ignore which facts?.
backed policy solution sound good poor prospect.	Who backed policies that have solutions that sound good but have poor prospects?.
kind energy single-shot solution create interest.	What kinds of energy did single-shot solutions create interest in?.
american entrepreneurships criticized since crisis.	How have American entrepreneurships been criticized since the crisis?.
policy promoted due nuclear power.	What policies have been promoted due to nuclear power?.
result policy use renewable energy.	What are the results of policies that use renewable energy?.
politically correct policy nuclear power promoted america.	What have politically correct policies about nuclear power promoted in America?.
country thinking going war forcibly take middle eastern oil field.	Which country was thinking about going to war to forcibly take Middle Eastern oil fields?.
country worried u would invade middle east.	Which country was worried that the US would invade the Middle East?.
long would invasion middle east last order develop renewable resource.	How long would the invasion of the Middle East have to last in order to develop renewable resources?.
would occupation alienate.	Who would the occupation alienate?.
action u plan take 2004 due rising oil price.	What action did the US plan to take in 2004 due to rising oil prices?.
revealed intention british middle east regarding oil price 2004.	What revealed the intentions of the British in the middle east regarding oil prices in 2004?.
edward heath told lord cromer taking action middle east.	What had Edward Heath told Lord Cromer about taking action in the middle east?.
british ambassador lord cromer order due worry u mid east action.	What did British Ambassador Lord Cromer order due to his worry about US mid East actions?.
would kuwaiti response u action.	What would be a Kuwaiti response to US actions be?.
country dependent arab oil.	Which country is the most dependent on Arab oil?.
much imported oil came middle east.	How much imported oil came from the Middle East?.
force japan involved crisis, saudi kuwaiti government.	To force Japan to be more involved in the crisis, what did Saudi and Kuwaiti government do?.
japan release statement tell israeli withdraw palestine.	When did Japan release a statement to tell Israelis to withdraw from the Palestine?.
japan accepted arab-friendly state.	When was Japan accepted as an Arab-friendly state?.
country involved nonviolent policy.	Which country is most involved in nonviolent policy?.
action taken japan december 25th make change policy.	What action was taken against Japan on December 25th to make them change their policy?.
israel japan's imported oil force involvement crisis.	What did Israel do to Japan's imported oil to force their involvement in the crisis?.
israel declared nonfriendly country.	When was Israel declared a nonfriendly country?.
japan received 71% imported oil middle east december result cause public.	When Japan received 71% of its imported oil from the middle east in December what result did it cause in public?.
country's invasion show insecurity middle east.	Which country's invasion show the insecurity of the Middle East?.
country became dependent us's security assurance threat.	Which countries became dependent on US's security assurance to threats?.
country's arm purchase u became 5 time israel.	Which country's arms purchase from the US became 5 times more than Israel?.
shah kingdom start collapse.	When did the Shah kingdom start to collapse?.
wahhabi seized grand mosque mecca.	When did the Wahhabi seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca?.
country saudi arabia invade 1979.	What country did Saudi Arabia invade in 1979?.
sign insecurity mecca.	What are other signs of insecurity in Mecca?.
persian gulf depend saudi manage.	What did the Persian Gulf depend on the Saudis to manage?.
another reason al-hasa buying weapon russia.	What is another reason that Al-Hasa was buying weapons from Russia?.
kind sunni muslim monarchy iran lead.	What kind of Sunni muslim monarchy is is Iran lead by?.
sized car least demanded car crisis.	Which sized cars were the least demanded cars in the crisis?.
country's car became highly sought fuel efficient.	Which country's cars became more highly sought after as they were more fuel efficient?.
type engine american car typically.	What type of engines does the American car typically have?.
country's import became de facto mass market leader.	Which country's imports became the de facto mass market leaders?.
standard american car create auto industry.	What standards did American cars create in the auto industry?.
two car v8 engine fuel efficient.	What are two cars with V8 engines that were more fuel efficient?.
type unibody construction american car usually.	What type of unibody construction does an American car usually have?.
country became leader importing large car.	What country became a leader in importing large cars?.
increased demand car six cylinder engine.	What increased demand for cars with six cylinder engines?.
honda, toyota nissan open u assembly plant.	When did Honda, Toyota and Nissan open US assembly plants?.
name larger car toyota came buyer lamented small sized compact.	Name a larger car that Toyota came up with as buyers lamented the small sized compacts?.
name extra added production compacts..	Name an extra that was added to the production of the compacts..
name luxury division toyota..	Name a luxury division of Toyota..
1973 mazda open u.	In 1973 what did Mazda open in the US?.
mazda establish u 1973.	What did Mazda establish in the US in 1973?.
mazda want distinguish opening assembly plant 1973.	What did Mazda want to distinguish itself from by opening assembly plants in 1973?.
buyer like acuras.	What did some buyers not like about Acuras?.
two thing added lexus 1981.	What are two things that were added to the Lexus in 1981?.
name type toyota compact truck.	Name a type of Toyota compact trucks?.
mitsubishi rename forte.	What did Mitsubishi rename its Forte to?.
mazda, mitsubishi isuzu joined partnership american car company.	Mazda, Mitsubishi and Isuzu joined partnership with which American car company?.
american car company rolled domestic replacement cars, policy ended.	When American car companies rolled out with their domestic replacement cars, which policy ended?.
toyota rebrand forte.	What did Toyota rebrand its Forte as?.
type dodge built compact truck.	What is a type of Dodge built compact truck?.
company toyota, chevrolet dodge joint partnership.	What companies did Toyota, Chevrolet and Dodge have joint partnerships with?.
japanese company introduced compact trucks, policy ended.	When Japanese companies introduced compact trucks, what policy ended?.
compact truck replacement introduced toyota.	What compact truck replacements were introduced by Toyota?.
gm, ford chrysler introduced fuel-efficient small car u market.	Why did GM, Ford and Chrysler introduced fuel-efficient and small cars to the US market?.
many passenger ford fiesta accommodate.	How many passengers can the Ford Fiesta accommodate?.
year american car mpg start improve.	By which year did the American cars mpg start to improve?.
name luxury model became popular mid-1970s..	Name a luxury model that became popular in the mid-1970s..
full-sized model car popular.	Which full-sized model cars were not popular?.
oil price increase force gm, ford chrysler.	What did oil price increases force GM, Ford and Chrysler to do?.
1979, average mpg american car.	In 1979, what was the average mpg for American cars?.
price barrel oil 1970.	What was the price of a barrel of oil in 1970?.
two small car model recover 1974.	What are two small car models that didn't recover in 1974?.
many passenger could chevrolet bel air carry 1970.	How many passengers could a Chevrolet Bel Air carry in 1970?.
year full sized american car shrink smaller.	By which year did full sized American cars shrink to be smaller?.
year chrysler ended full sized luxury model.	By which year did Chrysler ended its full sized luxury model?.
car show dot's revision category.	Which car shows the DOT's revision of categories?.
happened safety bumper 1979.	What happened to safety bumpers in 1979?.
dodge end production full size sedan.	When did Dodge end production of their full size sedans?.
plymouth gran fury prelude vehicle category.	What was the Plymouth Gran Fury a prelude to in vehicle categories?.
type vehicle chrysler change 1977.	What type of vehicle did Chrysler change to in 1977?.
two change gm vehicle implemented 1982.	What are two changes to GM vehicles that were implemented in 1982?.
opec production oil surpassed.	When was OPEC production of oil being surpassed?.
year price oil drop $10 per barrel.	Which year did the price of oil drop to $10 per barrel?.
saudi arabia try increase production, reduce profit high cost producer.	Why did Saudi Arabia try to increase production, and reduce profits for high cost producers?.
1979, oil crisis, highest price oil.	In 1979, during the oil crisis, what was the highest price of oil?.
year country oil production surpassed saudi arabia.	In what year was other countries oil production surpassed by Saudi Arabia?.
opec gain market share 1979.	What did OPEC do to gain market share in 1979?.
two consequence opec pushing oil price 1981.	What were two consequences of OPEC pushing down oil prices in 1981?.
world price oil peak 1973.	What did the world price of oil peak at in 1973?.
price oil fall 1979 oil crisis.	What did the price of oil fall to during the 1979 oil crisis?.
european union law.	What is European Union Law?.
main source primary law.	What are the main sources of primary law?.
secondary source primary law.	What are the secondary sources of primary law?.
two body make european union's legislature.	What are the two bodies that make up the European Union's legislature?.
european union law.	What is European Union law?.
effect european union law law member state.	What effect does European Union law have on laws of member states?.
three source european union law.	What are the three sources of European Union law?.
main legislative body european union.	What are the main legislative bodies of the European Union?.
three main source european union law.	What are the three main sources of European Union law?.
main source primary law.	What are the main sources of primary law?.
legislature european union comprised.	What is the legislature of the European Union comprised of?.
many source european union law.	How many sources of European Union law are there?.
three source american union law.	What are the three sources of American Union Law?.
american union law body.	What is American Union Law a body of?.
3 source european union law.	What are not the 3 sources of European Union law?.
last source european union law.	What is the last source of European Union law?.
legislature american union principally composed.	The legislature of American Union is principally composed of what?.
applies european union law.	Who applies European Union law?.
enforce european union law member state provide lesser right.	Who can enforce the European Union law when member states provide lesser rights?.
highest court european union.	What is the highest court in the European Union?.
one supplementary source european union law.	What is one of the supplementary sources of European Union law? .
two court apply european union law.	Which two courts apply European Union law?.
treaty european commission take action member state.	Under what treaty can the European Commission take action against member states?.
court highest court european union.	Which court is the highest court in the European Union?.
one supplementary source european union law.	What is one supplementary source of European Union law?.
european law applied.	By whom is European Law applied by?.
enforce european union law.	Who can enforce European Union law?.
highest court european union law.	What is the highest court in European Union law?.
supplementary source european union law.	What are some supplementary sources of European Union law?.
applies american union law.	Who applies American Union law?.
enforce american union law member state provide lesser right.	Who can enforce the American Union law when members states provide lesser rights?.
american commission take proceeding.	Who can the American Commission can take proceedings against?.
lowest court european union.	What is the lowest court in the European Union?.
supplementary source american union law.	What are some supplementary sources of American Union law?.
two primary constitutional source european union.	What are the two primary constitutional sources of the European Union?.
power initiate legislation within european union.	Who has the power to initiate legislation within the European Union?.
elect member european parliament.	Who elects the members of the European Parliament?.
court able interpret european union law.	What court is able to interpret European Union law?.
governing body appoints commissioner board european central bank.	What governing body appoints commissioners and the board of European Central Bank?.
codified constitution.	Who has a codified constitution?.
primary constitutional source american union.	What are the primary constitutional sources of the American Union? .
power initiate legislation within european union.	Who does not have the power to initiate legislation within the European Union?.
elect member american parliament.	Who elects the members of the American Parliament?.
governing body appoints commissioner board american central bank.	What governing body appoints commissioners and the board of American Central Bank?.
treaty provides european union law applied metropolitan territory member state.	Which treaty provides that the European Union law be applied to metropolitan territories of member states?.
region treaty european union excludes jurisdiction.	Are there any regions where the Treaty of European Union excludes from jurisdiction?.
power court justice european union regard treaty.	What powers does the Court of Justice of the European Union have in regards to treaties?.
instance individual rely primary law court justice european union.	Under what instances can individuals rely on primary law in the Court of Justice of European Union?.
treaty apply.	When do treaties apply?.
core treaty primary law eu consists.	What are the core treaties that the primary law of the EU consists of?.
example territory member state responsible external relation.	What are some examples of territories where a member state is responsible for external relations?.
stated treaty apply.	When do the stated Treaties apply?.
suited interpret treaty.	Who is suited to interpret the Treaties?.
primary law eu.	What is not the primary law of the EU?.
contain formal substantive provision.	What does not contain formal and substantive provisions?.
teu.	What does the TEU not do?.
european union law apply.	Where does the European Union law not apply?.
teu allow european council.	What does the TEU not allow the European Council to do?.
principle treaty form european union begin.	How did the principle treaties that form the European Union begin?.
two treaty provided formal institution european union.	Which two treaties provided more formal institutions of the European Union?.
year spain portugal join european union.	In what years did Spain and Portugal join the European Union?.
1972, norway end joining european union.	In 1972, did Norway end up joining the European Union?.
country 1985 signed treaty give special status.	Which country in 1985 signed a treaty to give it special status?.
caused need principal treaty ended forming eu.	What caused the need for principal Treaties that ended up forming the EU?.
year maastrich treaty signed.	When year was the Maastrich Treaty signed?.
single european act made.	 When was the Single European Act made?.
denmark join eu.	When did Denmark join the EU?.
greenland sign treaty granting special status.	When did Greenland sign a Treaty granting them special status?.
principle treaty form canadian union begin.	How did the principle treaties that form the Canadian Union begin?.
two treaty provide formal institution canadian union.	Which two treaties provide more formal institutions of the Canadian Union?.
major adjust made treaty 1960.	What major adjust was made to the treaties in 1960?.
year spain portugal refuse join eu.	What year did Spain and Portugal refuse to join the EU?.
year uk, ireland, denmark, norway refuse join eu.	What year did the UK, Ireland, Denmark, and Norway refuse to join the EU?.
attempt reform law eu.	When was there an attempt to reform the law of the EU?.
two country's referendum curtailed constitution europe.	What two country's referendums curtailed a constitution for Europe?.
similar lisbon treaty constitutional treaty.	How similar was the Lisbon Treaty to the constitutional treaty?.
type treaty lisbon treaty.	What type of treaty was the Lisbon Treaty?.
lisbon treaty one would alter existing treaty replace.	Is the Lisbon Treaty one that would alter existing treaties or replace them?.
reform attempted following nice treaty.	What reform was attempted following the Nice Treaty?.
additional projected effect attempted reform.	What was an additional projected effect of the attempted reform?.
caused reform never come force.	Which caused the reform to never come into force?.
treaty took place constitutional treaty.	What treaty took the place of constitutional treaty? .
happen nice treaty.	What did not happen after the Nice Treaty?.
constitution europe put place.	When was the constitution for Europe put into place?.
similar lisbon treaty.	What was not similar to the Lisbon Treaty?.
treaty enacted 2004.	What treaty was enacted in 2004?.
caused reform come force.	Which caused the reform to come into force?.
main executive body eu.	What is the main executive body of the EU?.
sole governing authority capable initiating legislative proposal.	Who is the sole governing authority capable of initiating legislative proposals?.
authority figure designated schedule set work eu.	Which authority figure is designated to schedule and set the work of the EU?.
28 member states, many commissioner's represented one.	For each of the 28 member states, how many Commissioner's are represented for each one?.
current president high representative foreign security policy.	Who is the current President and the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy?.
article treaty european union state commissioner completely independent take instruction government.	Which article of the Treaty on European Union states that Commissioners should be completely independent and not take instructions from any Government?.
set agenda eu's work.	Who sets the agenda for the EU's work?.
decision made behave eu made.	How are decisions made on behave of the EU made?.
country refused content change treaty lisbon 2007.	Which country refused to content to changes in the Treaty of Lisbon 2007?.
un-elected subordinate member state government.	Who are the un-elected subordinates of member state governments?.
main executive body eu.	What was not the main executive body of the EU?.
sole governing authority capable initiating legislative proposal.	Who was not the sole governing authority capable of initiating legislative proposals?.
given authority designate agenda.	Who was not given authority to designate an agenda?.
year ireland agree change treaty lisbon.	What year did Ireland agree to the changes in Treaty of Lisbon?.
subjected qualified minority vote council approval.	Who was subjected to a qualified minority vote of the Council for approval?.
commission censured 1999, paved way commissioner abuse power.	What commission was censured in 1999, and paved the way for Commissioners to abuse their power?.
european court justice rule defendant case commission v. edith cresson broke law.	Did the European Court of Justice rule the defendant in the case of Commission v. Edith Cresson broke any laws?.
found developed culture commissioner's lacked responsibility.	Who found that there was a developed culture of Commissioner's who lacked responsibility?.
appoints board european central bank.	Who appoints the board of the European Central Bank?.
president council vote important matter related european central bank.	Can the President of the Council vote on important matters related to the European Central Bank?.
santer commission censured parliament.	When was the Santer Commission censured by Parliament?.
censuring santer commission resulted main case.	The censuring of the Santer Commission  resulted in which main case?.
found culture developed commissioner sense responsibility.	Who found that a culture had developed where few Commissioners had any sense of responsibility?.
corruption found committee independent expert resulted creation office.	The corruption found by the Committee of Independent Experts resulted to the creation of what office?.
european anti-fraud office investigate john dalli.	When did the European Anti-Fraud Office investigate John Dalli?.
exempt member state tax.	Who was not exempt from member state taxes?.
immunity prosecution official act.	Who did not have immunity from prosecution for doing official acts? .
commission found abused power 1980's.	What commission was found to have abused power in 1980's?.
commission resign even though faced corruption allegation.	What commission did not resign even though faced corruption allegations?.
minor case result censuring santer commission.	What minor case was the result of the censuring of the Santer Commission?.
legislative body, council, made type individual.	The legislative body, the Council, are made up of what type of individuals?.
currently president council.	Who is currently the President of the Council?.
vote weighted ensure smaller state dominated larger one.	How are the votes weighted to ensure that smaller states aren't dominated by larger ones?.
total number vote counted voting process.	What are the total number of votes to be counted during the voting process?.
currently, many vote 352 total vote needed majority.	Currently, how many votes out of the 352 total votes are needed for a majority?.
entity secondary legislative body.	Which entity is the secondary legislative body?.
often european council meet.	How often does the European Council meet?.
many vote total council.	How many votes in total does the Council have?.
defined majority vote.	What is defined as the majority vote?.
legislative body composed.	What is the legislative body not composed of?.
convenes american council.	Who convenes at the American Council?.
currently vice president council.	Who is currently the Vice President of Council?.
meet every 3 month.	What meets every 3 months?.
vote weighted ensure smaller state dominated larger one.	How are the votes weighted to ensure the smaller states are dominated by larger ones?.
type vote must parliament either block suggest change commission's proposal.	What type of vote must the Parliament have to either block or suggest changes to the Commission's proposals?.
type vote must council pas order approve change recommended parliament.	What type of vote must the Council pass in order to approve of any changes recommended by Parliament? .
easier harder change eu law stay.	Is it easier or harder to change EU law than stay the same?.
article state unless conferred, power remain member state.	What articles state that unless conferred, powers remain with member states?.
within eu, court belief final word deciding eu's competence.	Within the EU, which court believes they have the final word deciding on EU's competence?.
tfeu article defines ordinary legislative procedure applies majority eu act.	Which TFEU article defines the ordinary legislative procedure that applies for majority of EU acts?.
block legislation.	What can block a legislation?.
article state power stay member state unless they've conferred.	Which articles state that powers stay with member states unless they've been conferred?.
entity created three different institution cannot come consensus stage.	What entity is created if the three different institutions cannot come to a consensus at any stage?.
tfeu article define.	What does TFEU article not define?.
tfeu revise old legislation.	How does the TFEU revise old legislation?.
type vote council pas order disapprove change recommended parliament.	What type of vote does the Council not pass in order to disapprove of any changes recommended by Parliament?.
article state unless conferred, power remain member state.	What articles do not state that unless conferred, powers remain with the member states?.
final say ultimately competence define eu's competence.	Who does not have the final say in who ultimately has the competence to define the EU's competence?.
branch eu influence development eu law.	Which branch of the EU has had the most influence on the development of EU law?.
main judicial body eu.	What is the main judicial body of the EU?.
many total judge eu.	How many total judges are there in the EU?.
court eu law applied.	Under which courts is most EU law applied?.
cjeu's duty.	What is the CJEU's duty?.
judicial branch eu important factor development eu law.	How is the judicial branch of the EU an important factor in the development of EU law?.
current main judicial body eu.	What is the current main judicial body of the EU?.
entity deal eu staff issue.	What entity deals with EU staff issues?.
long one term elected president cjeu.	How long is one term for an elected president of the CJEU?.
cjeu's duty.	What is the CJEU's duty?.
branch eu least amount influence development eu law.	Which branch of the EU has had the least amount of influence on the development of Eu law?.
main judicial body eu.	What is not the main judicial body of the EU?.
many total female judge eu.	How many total female judges are there in the EU?.
court least eu law applied.	Which courts is the least EU law applied?.
cjeu duty emcompass.	What does the CJEU duty not emcompass?.
conflict eu law national law, law take precedence.	If there is a conflict between EU law and national law, which law take precedence?.
reason italian constitutional court gave resulted mr. costa losing claim enel.	What was the reason the Italian Constitutional court gave that resulted in Mr. Costa losing his his claim against ENEL?.
year two regulation conflicted italian law originate simmenthal spa case.	What were the years two Regulations that conflicted with an Italian law originate in the Simmenthal SpA case? .
entity develop principle dedicated conflict resolution law different system.	Which entities have had to develop principles dedicated to conflict resolution between laws of different systems?.
costa v enel take place.	When did Costa v ENEL take place?.
court argued treaty rome prevent energy nationalism.	Which court argued that the Treaty of Rome did not prevent energy nationalism?.
operated among decreasing plurality national globalising legal system.	What has operated among a decreasing plurality of national and globalising legal systems?.
develop principle resolve conflict law different system.	Who did not have to develop principles to resolve conflicts of laws between different systems?.
major case happened 1970's court justice held ultimately treaty rome way prevented energy nationalism.	What major case happened in the 1970's where the Court of Justice held that ultimately the Treaty of Rome in no way prevented energy nationalism?.
court argue treaty rome prevent energy nationalism.	Which court did not argue that the Treaty of Rome did not prevent energy nationalism?.
member state agree take precedence national law.	What do all member states agree takes precedence over national law?.
issue member state say court justice final say.	What issues do member states say the Court of Justice does not have the final say on?.
european community act created.	When was the European Communities Act created?.
case eu override german law.	In what cases can the EU not override German law?.
eu's legitimacy rest.	What does the EU's legitimacy rest on?.
eu accept court justice.	What does the EU accept about the Court Justice?.
basic principle canadian parliament.	What is the basic principle of the Canadian Parliament?.
european community act denied acceptance.	When was the European Communities Act denied acceptance?.
view german constitutional court solange solange ii.	What was not the view of the German Constitutional Court from Solange I and Solange II?.
eu's legitimacy rest.	What does the EU's legitimacy not rest on?.
type law make eu institution member state follow law.	Which type of law makes EU institutions and its member states follow the law?.
year citizen corporation said able bring claim non state party.	During what year were citizens or corporations said to not be able to bring claims against other non state parties?.
action eu institution subject judicial review.	Which actions by EU institutions can be subject to judicial review?.
type law concern eu's governance structure.	Which type of law concerns the EU's governance structure?.
type law make eu institution member state follow law.	What type of law does not make Eu institutions and member states follow the law?.
year citizen corporation said able bring claim non state party.	What year were citizens or corporations said to have been able to bring claims against other non state parties?.
bound apply eu law national rule conflicted.	Who was bound to apply an EU law where a national rule conflicted?.
action eu institution subject judicial review.	Which actions by EU institutions were not subject to judicial review?.
type law concern eu's governance structure.	Which type of law did not concern the Eu's governance structure?.
case held provision treaty directly effective clear, unconditional, require action eu national authority.	In which case was it held that the provisions of the treaties are directly effective if they are clear, unconditional, and don't require further action by EU or national authorities?.
tefu article state quantitative restriction placed trade.	Which TEFU article states that no quantitative restrictions can be placed on trade?.
type company van gend en loo.	What type of company is Van Gend en Loos?.
eu regulation essentially case mentioned.	What are EU Regulations essentially the same as in the case mentioned?.
generally accepted eu law.	What is generally not accepted about EU law?.
could recover money paid tariff.	Who could not recover the money it paid for the tariff?.
tfeu article state.	What does TFEU article not state?.
generally allow citizen sue citizen.	What generally does not allow citizens to sue other citizens?.
many paid holiday day working time directive require worker year.	How many paid holiday days does the Working Time directive require workers to have each year?.
many paid holiday day member state require.	How many paid holiday days do most member states require?.
three advocate general argue directive create right duty citizen.	When did the three Advocate Generals argue that Directives should create rights and duties for all citizens?.
generally allow citizen sue citizen.	What generally does allow citizens to sue other citizens?.
tfeu article 288 say.	What does TFEU article 288 not say?.
many non paid holiday working time directive require worker year.	How many non paid holidays does the Working time directive require workers to have each year?.
require 28 day national law.	What does not require more than 28 days in national law?.
happens first directive's deadline implementation met.	What happens first if a Directive's deadline for implementation is not met?.
happens secondly directive's deadline met.	What happens secondly if a Directive's deadline is not met?.
long m kucukdeveci work swedex gmbh & co kg dismissed.	How long did Ms Kucukdeveci work for Swedex Gmbh & Co KG before she was dismissed?.
company mr foster work.	Which company did Mrs Foster work for?.
age british gas plc force worker retire.	At what age did British Gas plc force their workers to retire?.
happens directive's deadline met.	What happens if the Directive's deadline is met?.
italian government fail implement.	What did the Italian government not fail to implement?.
citizen company invoke.	What a a citizen or company not invoke?.
happens directive doe snot give expression "general principle"of eu law.	What happens if a Directive doe snot give expression to a "general principle"of EU law?.
m kucukdeveci work.	Who did Ms Kucukdeveci not work for?.
court duty interpret domestic law far possible.	Which courts have a duty to interpret domestic law as far as possible?.
first company law directive article 11 require.	What does the First Company Law Directive article 11 require?.
italian government fail francovich v italy.	What did the Italian government fail to do in Francovich v Italy?.
much money francovich allowed claim italian goverment damage.	How much money was Francovich allowed to claim from the Italian goverment in damages?.
court duty interpret domestic law far possible.	Which courts do not have a duty to interpret  domestic law as far a possible?.
first company law directive article 11 require.	What does the First Company Law Directive article 11 not require?.
court justice acknowledge.	What did the Court of Justice not acknowledge?.
italian government fail francovich v italy.	What did the Italian government not fail to do in Francovich v Italy?.
much money francovich allowed claim italian government claim.	How much money did Francovich not allowed to claim from the Italian government in claims?.
entity developed principle european union law.	Which entity developed the principles of European Union Law?.
accepted general principle european union law.	What are some of the accepted general principles of European Union law?.
entity develop principle european union law.	Which entity did not develop the principles of European Union law?.
source eu court drawn.	What sources did the EU courts not drawn on?.
rejected general principle european union law.	What are some of the rejected general principles of European Union law?.
type rule expressly provided treaty.	What type of rules are expressly provided for in treaties?.
long proportionality recognized one general principle eu law.	How long has Proportionality been recognized as one of the general principles of EU law?.
principle proportionality recognized ec treaty.	Where is the principle of proportionality recognized in the EC treaty?.
measure must adopted choice several.	Which measure must be adopted when there is a choice between several?.
long proportionality recognized one general principle eu law.	How long has Proportionality not been recognized as one of the general principles of Eu law?.
lawfulness action depend.	What does the lawfulness of action not depend on?.
measure adopted choice several inappropriate measure.	Which measure is adopted when there is a choice between several inappropriate measures?.
principle proportionality recognized ec treaty.	Where is the principle of proportionality not recognized in the EC treaty?.
stated article 5 ec treaty.	What is not stated in Article 5 of the EC Treaty?.
long concept legal certainty recognized one general principle eu law.	How long has the concept of legal certainty been recognized as one of the general principles by the EU law?.
law mentioned predate eu law.	Which laws mentioned predate EU law?.
must adoption law legal effect eu.	What must the adoption of laws which will have legal effect in the EU have?.
doctrine legitimate expectation root.	In what does the doctrine of legitimate expectations have roots?.
recognized one general principle european union law.	What is not recognized as one of the general principles of European Union law?.
first recognized eu law 1970's.	What was first recognized by EU law in the 1970's?.
law mentioned predate eu law.	Which laws mentioned not not predate EU law?.
must adoption law legal effect eu.	What must the adoption of laws which will not have legal effect in the EU have?.
must legislation member state implement eu law must worded.	How must legislation in member states which implements EU law must not be worded?.
european court justice likely get inspiration.	Where is the European Court of justice likely to get inspiration from?.
european court justice cannot uphold measure incompatible.	The European Court of Justice cannot uphold measures that are incompatible with what?.
fundamental right recognized european court justice.	When were fundamental rights not recognized by the European Court of Justice?.
regarded integral part general principle eu law.	What is not regarded as an integral part of the general principles of EU law?.
european court justice uphold measure.	When can the European Court of Justice uphold measures?.
european court justice find supply guideline.	What did the European Court of Justice not find about supply guidelines?.
many original treaty establishing eu protected fundamental right.	How many original treaties establishing the EU protected fundamental rights?.
entity originally concerned preventing violation human right.	Which entities were originally concerned with preventing violation of human rights?.
european convention human right established.	When was the European Convention on Human Rights established?.
entity established time european convention human right.	What other entity was established at the same time as the European Convention on Human Rights?.
european council task entity drafting european charter human right.	When did the European Council task an entity with drafting a European Charter of Human Rights?.
many original treaty establishing eu protect fundamental rights/.	How many original treaties establishing the EU did not protect fundamental rights/.
entity originally concerned preventing violation human right.	Which entities were not originally concerned with preventing violation of human rights?.
european convention human right written.	When was the European Convention of Human Rights written?.
entity established time european convention human right.	What other entity was not established at the same time as the European Convention of Human Rights?.
european court justice recognize.	What did the European Court of Justice not recognize?.
lisbon treaty established.	When was the Lisbon Treaty established?.
charter become important aspect eu law.	What charter has become an important aspect of EU law?.
lisbon treaty, charter convention co-exist.	After the Lisbon treaty, the Charter and the Convention now co-exist under what?.
entity enforces charter fundamental right european union.	What entity enforces the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union?.
lisbon treaty rejected.	When was the Lisbon Treaty rejected?.
charter become improtant aspect eu law.	What charter has not become an improtant aspect of Eu law?.
shall legal value treaty.	What shall not have the same legal value as the Treaties?.
co-exist eu law.	What does not co-exist under EU law?.
entity enforce charter fundamental right european union.	What entity does not enforce the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union?.
social chapter chapter treaty.	The Social Chapter is a chapter of what treaty?.
year treaty amsterdam created.	What year was the Treaty of Amsterdam created?.
basis social chapter developed.	When was the basis for the Social Chapter developed?.
many general principle social charter declare.	How many general principles does the Social Charter declare?.
many piece legislation social charter become basis.	How many pieces of legislation has the Social Charter become the basis for?.
treaty social chapter chapter.	What treaty is the Social Chapter not a chapter of?.
year treaty amsterdam rejected european union law.	What year was the Treaty of Amsterdam rejected by the European Union law?.
developed 1980's social partner representative.	What was developed in the 1980's by the social partners representatives?.
many general principle social charter declare.	How many general principles does the the Social Charter not declare?.
many piece legislation social charter become basis.	How many pieces of legislation has the Social Charter not become the basis for?.
many member state adopted social charter 1989.	How many member states adopted the Social Charter in 1989?.
member state declined sign social charter.	Which member state declined to sign the Social Charter?.
title social charter set included maastricht treaty.	What title was the Social Charter set to be included into the Maastricht treaty under?.
year maastricht treaty signed.	What year was the Maastricht treaty signed?.
social charter adopted.	When was the Social Charter not adopted?.
adopt social charter.	Who did not adopt the Social Charter?.
agreed sign social charter exempt legislation covering social charter issue.	Who agreed to sign the Social Charter and was exempt from the legislation covering Social Charter issues?.
member state veto social charter social charter included social charter masstricht treaty.	Who was the only member state not to veto the Social Charter the Social Charter being included as the Social Charter of Masstricht Treaty?.
title social charter set included masstricht treaty.	What title was the Social Charter not set to be included into the Masstricht treaty under?.
lead uk subscribe agreement social policy.	What lead to the UK to subscribe to the agreement on Social Policy?.
uk formally subscribe agreement social policy.	When did the UK formally subscribe to the Agreement on Social Policy?.
directive mentioned created 1994.	Which directive mentioned was created in 1994?.
parental leave directive created.	When was the Parental Leave directive created?.
work council directive require.	What did the Works Council Directive require?.
follow election uk labour party government.	What did not follow the election of the UK Labour Party to government?.
uk subscribe agreement social policy.	When did the UK not subscribe to the Agreement on the Social Policy?.
require workforce consultation business.	What did not require workforce consultation in business?.
parental leave directive rejected.	When was the Parental Leave directive rejected?.
european union undertaken following adoption social charter.	What has the European Union not undertaken following the adoption of the Social Charter?.
country european coal steel community agreement.	Which countries were the European Coal and Steel Community agreement between?.
year ecsc agreement established.	What year was the ECSC agreement established?.
article 65 ecsc ban.	What did article 65 of the ECSC ban?.
article made provision concentration merger abuse dominant position company.	Which article made provisions for concentrations or mergers and the abuse of a dominant position by companies?.
competition rule included treaty rome.	When were competition rules included in the Treaty of Rome?.
country agree upon european coal steel community agreement.	Which countries did not agree upon the European Coal and Steel Community agreement?.
agreement aim regarding germany.	What did the agreement not aim to do regarding Germany?.
eu member believe lead outbreak war.	What did the EU members not believe lead to the outbreak of the war?.
article 65 agree upon.	What did Article 65 not agree upon?.
article 66 make provision.	What did Article 66 not make provisions for?.
article treaty lisbon prohibit anti-competitive agreement.	In which article does the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit anti-competitive agreements?.
article 102 treaty lisbon prohibit.	What does Article 102 of the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit?.
article state member states' right deliver public service may obstructed.	Which articles state that the member states' rights to deliver public services may not be obstructed?.
article allows european council govern merger firm.	Which article allows the European Council to govern mergers between firms?.
treaty lisbon allow today.	What does the Treaty of Lisbon allow today?.
article 102 prohibit.	What does Article 102 not prohibit?.
article 102 allow european council.	What does Article 102 not allow the European Council to do?.
artictle state member states' right deliver public service may obstructed.	Which artictle does not state that the member states' rights to deliver public services may not be obstructed?.
article 107 lay.	What does Article 107 not lay down?.
concept social market economy introduced eu law.	When was the concept of a social market economy introduced into EU law?.
long free movement trade central european development.	How long has free movement and trade been central to European development?.
breaking barrier trade enhancing free movement good meant reduce.	Breaking down barriers to trade and enhancing the free movement of goods is meant to reduce what?.
treaty generally limit.	What do the Treaties generally limit?.
entity taken view goal free trade underpinned aim improve people's well.	 What entity has taken the view that the goals of free trade are underpinned by the aims to improve people's well being?.
introduced eu law 2007.	What was not introduced into EU law in 2007?.
central european development since treaty rome 1957.	What was not central to European development since the Treaty of Rome 1957?.
originally theorised free trade area.	What was not originally theorised about a free trade area?.
treaty limit.	What do the treaties not limit?.
entity taken view specific goal free trade underpinned general aim improvement people's well.	What entity has not taken the view that the specific goal of free trade are to underpinned by the general aims of improvement of people's well being?.
help process free movement good.	What helps the process of free movement of goods?.
article 34 discriminate procureur du roi v dassonville.	What did did article 34 discriminate against in Procureur du Roi v Dassonville?.
article 34 meant state could responsible.	Article 34 meant states could be responsible for what?.
case french vigilante sabotaging shipment spanish strawberry.	In which case were French vigilantes sabotaging shipments of Spanish Strawberries?.
schmidberger v austria, court justice came conclusion austria infringe upon article 34 failing ban.	In Schmidberger v Austria, the Court of Justice came to the conclusion that Austria didn't infringe upon article 34 by failing to ban a what?.
help free movement good.	What does not help the free movement of goods?.
prohibited member state.	What is not prohibited between member states?.
eu manage non-member state.	What the the EU not manage from non-member states?.
state responsible article 34.	What were states not responsible for in Article 34?.
case french vigilante helping shipment spanish strawberry.	What case were French vigilantes helping shipments of Spanish Strawberries?.
minimum percent alcohol content german law requires spirit liqueur.	What is the minimum percent of alcohol content a German law requires all spirits and liqueurs to have?.
country rewe-zentrale ag wish import.	Which country did Rewe-Zentrale AG wish to import from?.
year case commission v italy dealt cocoa product.	Which year was the case Commission v Italy that dealt with cocoa products?.
italian chocolate made alone.	All Italian chocolate is made from what alone?.
2009 commission v italy, case, court justice held italian low prohibiting infringed article 34.	 In the 2009 Commission v Italy, case, the Court of Justice held that an Italian low prohibiting what infringed article 34?.
maximum percent alcohol content german law requires spirit liqueur.	What was maximum percent of alcohol content a German law requires all spirits and liqueurs to have?.
country dod rewe-zentrale ag wish import.	Which country dod Rewe-Zentrale AG not wish to import from?.
accepted german government's argument measure proportional protected public health.	Who accepted the German government's arguments that the measure proportional protected public health?.
court justice justify low content vegetable fat.	What did the Court of Justice justify about a low content of vegetable fat?.
two importer claimed french competition law, prevented selling picon beer wholesale price.	Which two importers claimed that under a French competition law, they were prevented from selling Picon beer under wholesale price?.
aim french competition law.	The aim of the French competition law was to do what?.
case court justice review swedish ban advertising young child 12.	In which case did the Court of Justice review Swedish bans on advertising to young children under 12?.
directive eu harmonize restriction restriction marketing advertising.	Under which Directive did the EU harmonize restrictions on restrictions on marketing and advertising?.
two importer claim french competition law, prevented selling picon beer wholesale price.	Which two importers did not claim that under French competition law, they were prevented from selling Picon beer under wholesale price?.
court justice rule fell tfeu article 34.	What did the Court of Justice rule fell under TFEU article 34?.
aim tfeu article 34 law.	What was not the aim of the TFEU article 34 law?.
case court justice review swedish ban advertising young child und er 12.	Which case did the Court of Justice not review Swedish bans on advertising to young children und er 12?.
treaty sought enable since foundation.	What have the Treaties sought to enable since its foundation?.
entity focused upon free movement worker.	Which entity focused upon the free movement of workers?.
free movement increasingly based.	What was free movement increasingly based on?.
case german man claim right live netherlands volunteer plumber.	In which case did a German man claim the right to live in Netherlands where he was a volunteer plumber?.
court justice say steymann entitled.	What did the Court of Justice say Steymann was entitled to?.
treaty seek since foundation.	What did the Treaties not seek to do since its foundation?.
european community originally focus.	What did the European Community not originally focus on?.
focused european community 1980's.	What was focused on by the European Community in the 1980's?.
free movement increasingly based citizenship.	Why was free movement not increasingly based on citizenship?.
court justice say mr. steymann entitled.	What did the Court of Justice say that Mr. Steymann was not entitled to do?.
article free movement worker regulation set primary provision equal treatment worker.	Which articles of the Free Movement of Workers Regulation set out the primary provisions on equal treatment of workers?.
belgian footballer claimed allowed transfer one football club another contract fulfilled.	Which Belgian footballer claimed that he should be allowed to transfer from one football club to another when his contract was fulfilled?.
language court justice accept required teach dublin college groner v minister education.	What language did the Court of Justice accept to be required to teach in a Dublin college in Groner v Minister for Education?.
case dutch national entitled continue receiving benefit moved belgium.	In which case was a Dutch national not entitled to continue receiving benefits when he moved to Belgium?.
case geven v land nordrhein-westfalen, many hour dutch woman question working germany.	In the case Geven v Land Nordrhein-Westfalen, how many hours was the Dutch woman in question working in Germany?.
set main provision equal treatment worker.	What did not set out the main provision on equal treatment of workers?.
article 1 4 generally require worker.	What did articles 1 to 4 not generally require of workers?.
belgian footballer claimed able transfer r.f.c. de liege usl dunkerque.	Which Belgian footballer claimed that he should not be able to transfer from R.F.C. de Liege to USL Dunkerque?.
people require regarding social advantage.	What did most people not require regarding social advantages?.
general justificatin limiting free movement tfeurticles 45(3).	What is the general justificatin for not limiting free movement in TFEUrticles 45(3)?.
lately viewed fundamental status member state national court justice.	What has lately been being viewed as a fundamental status of member state nationals by the Court of Justice?.
eu citizenship increased.	What has having an EU Citizenship increased?.
case court state austria allowed hold place austrian school exclusively austrian student.	In which case did the Court state that Austria was not allowed to hold places in Austrian schools exclusively for Austrian students?.
court required accessible.	What has the Court required to be more accessible?.
seen increasingly fundamental status member state national court justice.	What has not been seen increasingly as a fundamental status of member state nationals by the Court of Justice?.
eu citizenship decreased.	What has having an EU Citizenship decreased?.
case court state austria allowed hold place austrian school exclusivity austrian student.	What case did the Court state that Austria was allowed to hold places in Austrian schools exclusivity for Austrian students?.
court required le accessible.	What has the Court required to be less accessible?.
treaty protects freedom establishment freedom provide service.	Which Treaty protects the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services?.
gebhard v consiglio...milano, requirement registered milan able practice law would allowed condition.	In Gebhard v Consiglio...Milano, the requirements to be registered in Milan before being able to practice law would be allowed under what conditions?.
case court justice state refusal admit lawyer belgian bar belgian heritage able justified.	In which case did the Court of Justice state that refusal to admit a lawyer to the Belgian bar because he did not have Belgian heritage wasn't able to be justified?.
tfeu article state state exempt infringing right establishment exercise official authority.	Which TFEU article states that states are exempt from infringing on rights of establishment when they exercise official authority?.
case court justice hold requiring italian lawyer comply maximum tariff unless agreement client restriction.	In which case did the Court of Justice hold that requiring Italian lawyers to comply with maximum tariffs unless there was an agreement with a client was not a restriction?.
worker generally market.	What do workers generally have in the market?.
treaty functioning european union protect.	What does the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union not protect?.
right set enterprise without unjustified restriction.	Who does not have the right to set up an enterprise without unjustified restrictions?.
court justice say could help freedom establishment.	Who did the Court of Justice say could help the freedom of establishment?.
grand chamber court justice say commission proven.	What did the Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice say the Commission had proven?.
year toxic waste spill european ship prompt commission look legislation waste.	In which year did a toxic waste spill from a European ship prompt the Commission to look into legislation against waste?.
time, country spain crime.	At the time, countries such as Spain didn't have a crime against what?.
court justice rule commission could propose must criminal sanction.	When did the Court of Justice rule that the Commission could only propose that there must be some criminal sanctions?.
competence union create criminal sentence ecological crime contested.	When was the competence for the Union to create criminal sentences for ecological crimes contested?.
year toxic waste spill american ship prompt commission look legislation waste.	What year did a toxic waste spill from an American ship prompt the Commission to look into legislation against waste?.
country spain crime.	What did countries such as Spain have a crime against?.
franco frattini, justice, freedom security commissioner, dimas reject.	What did Franco Frattini, the Justice, Freedom and Security Commissioner, and Dimas reject?.
court justice deny commission could propose must criminal sanction.	When did the Court of Justice deny that the Commission could only propose that there must some criminal sanctions?.
freedom provide service tfeu article 56 applies.	The freedom to provide services under TFEU article 56 applies to who?.
dutch lawyer moved belgium advising client social society case told continue.	Why was the Dutch lawyer who moved to Belgium while advising a client in a social society case told he couldn't continue?.
court justice reason controlled member state josemans v burgemeester van maastricht.	What did the Court of Justice reason were controlled in all member states in Josemans v Burgemeester van Maastricht?.
dutch health authority regard unnecessary geraets-smits v stichting ziekenfonds.	What did the Dutch health authorities regard as unnecessary in Geraets-Smits v Stichting Ziekenfonds?.
tfeu article 56 apply.	Who does the TFEU article 56 not apply to?.
could dutch lawyer moved belgium give legal advice.	Why could a Dutch lawyer who moved to Belgium give legal advice?.
fall outside scope article 56 according court justice.	What does not fall outside the scope of article 56 according to the Court of Justice?.
dutch health authority regard necessary.	What did Dutch health authorities regard as necessary?.
fall article 56 according several government.	What should fall under article 56 according to several governments?.
newspaper's parent company could evade tax shifting residence netherlands.	Which newspaper's parent company could not evade tax by shifting its residence to the Netherlands?.
much capital uk law require start company.	How much capital did UK law require to start a company?.
much capital danish law require start company.	How much capital did Danish law require to start a company?.
could justify restriction freedom establishment.	What could justify restrictions on freedom of establishment?.
case court justice hold german court deny dutch building company right enforce contract based germany.	In which case did the Court of Justice hold that a German court couldn't deny a Dutch building company the right to enforce a contract based in Germany?.
riled member stated could restrict company moving seat business without infringing tfeu article 49.	Who riled that member stated could not restrict a company from moving its seat of business without infringing TFEU article 49?.
could evade tax shifting resident netherlands.	Who could evade taxes by shifting its resident to the Netherlands?.
uk justify action.	Why did the UK have to justify its actions?.
much capital uk require start company.	How much capital did the UK not require to start a company?.
much denmark require start company.	How much did Denmark not require to start a company?.
name also used describe amazon rainforest english.	Which name is also used to describe the Amazon rainforest in English?.
many square kilometer rainforest covered basin.	How many square kilometers of rainforest is covered in the basin?.
many nation control region total.	How many nations control this region in total?.
many nation contain "amazonas" name.	How many nations contain "Amazonas" in their names?.
percentage amazon represents rainforest planet.	What percentage does the Amazon represents in rainforests on the planet?.
dutch word amazon rainforest.	What is the Dutch word for the Amazon rainforest?.
rainforest cover majority amazon basin south america.	What rainforest covers the majority of the Amazon basin in South America?.
country amazon rainforest found.	In what country can most of the Amazon rainforest be found?.
amazon rainforest make amount earth's rainforest.	The Amazon rainforest makes up what amount of Earth's rainforests?.
many specie tree found amazon rainforest.	How many species of trees can be found in the Amazon rainforest?.
kind forest amazon rainforest.	What kind of forest is the Amazon rainforest?.
many square kilometer amazon basin.	How many square kilometers is the Amazon Basin?.
many nation within amazon basin.	How many nations are within the Amazon Basin?.
nation contains majority amazon forest.	Which nation contains the majority of the amazon forest?.
estimate amount tree specie amazon tropical rain forest.	What is the estimate for the amount of tree species in the amazon tropical rain forest?.
amazonia amazon jungle longer used refer.	Amazonia or the Amazon jungle are no longer used to refer to what?.
cover amazon basin central america.	What covers most of the Amazon basin of Central America?.
201,000,000 sq mi rainforest cover.	201,000,000 sq mi of rainforest cover what?.
nineteen nation region.	Nineteen nations have what in this region?.
amazon represents le half planet remaining.	The Amazon represents less than half of the planets remaining what?.
type climate may allowed rainforest spread across continent.	Which type of climate may have allowed the rainforest to spread across the continent?.
allowed savanna region expand tropic.	What has allowed for the Savanna region to expand into the tropics?.
time rainforest spanned narrow band.	During what time did the rainforest spanned a narrow band? .
retract inland formation.	When did it retract to a inland formation?.
rainforest managed thrive glacial period.	Did the rainforest managed to thrive during the glacial periods? .
may caused rainforest grow across south america.	 What may have caused rainforests to grow across South America?.
many degree south amazon rainforest reach 66-34 mya.	How many degrees south did the Amazon rainforest reach from 66-34 Mya?.
caused savanna region grow south american tropic last 34 million year.	What has caused savanna regions to grow into the South American tropics in the last 34 million years?.
period history amazon rainforest narrow band forest.	During which period in history was the Amazon rainforest a narrow band of forest?.
amazon rainforest middle miocene.	What did the Amazon rainforest do during the Middle Miocene?.
extinction event might created condition allowing expansion amazon rainforest.	What extinction event might have created some conditions allowing the expansion of the amazon rainforest?.
beginning many year ago amazon rainforest extend 45 degree south.	Beginning how many years ago did the amazon rainforest extend 45 degrees south?.
oligocene period, period amazon rainforest begin expand.	After the Oligocene period, under what period did the amazon rainforest begin to expand?.
amazon rainforest became mostly inland forest around global event.	The amazon rainforest became a mostly inland forest around which global event?.
savannah area expanded last many year.	Savannah areas expanded over the last how many years?.
type climate stop reinforced spreading across continent.	What type of climate stop reinforced from spreading across the continent?.
extinction led decline rainforest.	The extinction of what led to the decline of rainforests?.
extended far north 45°.	What extended as far north as 45°?.
climate fluctuation stopped savanna.	Climate fluctuations have stopped the savanna from doing what?.
rain force failed thrive period.	The rain force failed to thrive during what periods?.
point drainage basin amazon split.	In which point did the drainage basin of the Amazon split?.
direction water eastern side flow.	In which direction did the water on the eastern side flow?.
name basin created enclosed lake.	What is the name of the basin that was created from a enclosed lake?.
long ago water broke purus arch.	How long ago was it when the water broke through the Purus Arch?.
join direction flow.	Where did it join in the direction of its flow?.
drainage basin amazon believed split middle south america.	When was the drainage basin of the Amazon believed to have split in the middle of South America?.
water east amazon drainage basin flow towards.	Where did water to the east of the Amazon drainage basin flow towards?.
water west amazon drainage basin flow towards.	Where did water to the west of the Amazon drainage basin flow towards?.
water flowed towards pacific flow across mid-eocene.	What did water that flowed towards the Pacific have to flow across during the mid-Eocene?.
basin formed andes mountain rose.	What basin was formed when the Andes Mountains rose?.
period drainage basin amazon likely split.	During what period the drainage basin of the Amazon likely split?.
near continent believed amazon basin split.	Near where in the continent is it believed that the Amazon basin split?.
water eastern side amazon basin travel split.	Where did water on the eastern side of the amazon basin travel after the split?.
water amazon basin flow towards moving west.	Where did the water in the Amazon Basin flow towards when moving west?.
lake known created rise andes mountain.	What is the lake known as which was created by the rise of the Andes Mountains?.
split amazon drainage basin along northern part continent.	What split the Amazon drainage basin along the northern part of the continent?.
water eastern side float away ocean.	Water on the eastern side float away from what ocean?.
water west side flowed basin towards ocean.	Water on the west side flowed below the basin and towards which ocean?.
rocky mountain enclosed late creating basing.	The Rocky Mountains enclosed a late creating what basing?.
water broke joined westward flow pacific.	Water from broke through and joined the westward flow to the Pacific?.
lgm stand.	What does LGM stands for?.
analysis sediment deposit indicate.	What did the analysis from the sediment deposits indicate? .
scientist argument.	What are some of scientists arguments? .
debate proven.	How has this debate been proven?.
explanation supported.	How are the explanations supported?.
major change amazon rainforest vegetation last many year.	There have been major changes in Amazon rainforest vegetation over the last how many years?.
caused change amazon rainforest vegetation.	What caused changes in the Amazon rainforest vegetation?.
analyzed compare amazon rainfall past present.	What has been analyzed to compare Amazon rainfall in the past and present?.
lower rainfall amazon lgm attributed.	What has the lower rainfall in the Amazon during the LGM been attributed to?.
many change vegetation amazon rainforest took place since last glacial maximum, many year ago.	Many changes in the vegetation of the amazon rainforest took place since the  Last Glacial Maximum, which was how many years ago?.
analysis kind deposit amazon fan indicates change rainfall amazon basin.	Analysis of what kind of deposits from the Amazon Fan indicates a change in rainfall in the Amazon basin?.
change rainfall reduced kind vegetation cover amazon basin.	Changes in rainfall reduced what kind of vegetation cover in the Amazon basin?.
scientist disagree amazon rainforest changed time arguing reduced isolated refugia seperated.	Scientists disagree with how the Amazon rainforest changed over time with some arguing that it was reduced to isolated refugia seperated by what?.
difficult resolve disagreement change amazon rainforest.	Why is it difficult to resolve disagreements about the changes in the Amazon rainforest?.
insignificant change amazon rain forest vegetation last.	There have been insignificant changes in the Amazon rain forest vegetation through the last what.
higher lgm present.	What was higher during the LGM than the present?.
easily proven rain forest.	What has been easily proven about the rain forest.
data sampling strongly support remained largely intact.	Data sampling strongly supports that what remained largely intact??.
name satellite measured amount dust.	What is the name of the satellite that measured the amount of dust?.
many ton dust blown sahara year.	How many tons of dust are blown from the Sahara each year?.
many mile dust travel atlantic ocean.	How many miles does the dust travels over the Atlantic Ocean?.
basin dust fall.	Which basin does the dust falls over into?.
many ton dust remains air.	How many tons of dust remains in the air?.
tool measured amount dust travel sahara amazon.	What tool has measured the amount of dust that travels from the Sahara to the Amazon?.
much dust blown sahara year.	How much dust is blown out of the Sahara each year?.
much saharan dust fall amazon basin year.	How much Saharan dust falls over the Amazon basin each year?.
much saharan dust remains air amazon year.	How much Saharan dust remains in the air over the Amazon each year?.
much saharan dust blown fall upon caribbean sea year.	How much Saharan dust is blown and falls upon the Caribbean Sea each year?.
satellite measured amount dust going amazon named.	A satellite that measured the amount of dust going to the Amazon was named what?.
organization run satellite measured dust landed amazon.	What organization runs the satellite that measured dust that landed on the Amazon?.
much windblown dust leaf sahara year.	How much windblown dust leaves the Sahara each year?.
many mile across atlantic ocean saharan dust travel.	How many miles across the Atlantic Ocean does Saharan dust travel?.
many ton saharan dust fall amazon basin year.	How many tons of Saharan dust falls on the Amazon Basin each year?.
name satellite measured amount vegetation hard amazon.	What is the name of the satellite that measured the amount of vegetation from the so hard to the Amazon?.
many ton dust blown rain forest year.	How many tons of dust are blown from the rain forest each year?.
many mile dust travel pacific.	How many miles is a dust travel over the Pacific?.
much dust blown sonar every year.	How much dust is blown into the sonar every year.
48 million ton dust blown onto c every year.	48 million tons of dust are blown onto what C every year?.
name book written archeologist betty meggers.	What is the name of the book written by Archeologist Betty Meggers?.
maximum square mile betty meggers claim sustained rainforest.	What is the maximum square miles did Betty Meggers claim that can be sustained in the rainforest? .
would needed host larger population.	What would be needed to host a larger population?.
finding suggested region densely populated.	Which findings suggested that the region was densely populated? .
many people may lived amazon region ad 1500.	How many people may have lived in the Amazon region during AD 1500?.
feature amazon made people believe many inhabitant.	What feature of the Amazon made people believe it couldn't have many inhabitants?.
well-known archeologist believed amazon many inhabitant.	What well-known archeologist believed the Amazon didn't have many inhabitants?.
many inhabitant betty meggers believe could occupy square kilometre amazon.	How many inhabitants did Betty Meggers believe could occupy each square kilometre of the Amazon?.
book betty meggers describe idea amazon sparsely populated.	In what book did Betty Meggers describe the idea of the Amazon being sparsely populated?.
archaeologist proposed idea amazon rainforest sustain large population.	Which archaeologist proposed the idea that the Amazon rainforest couldn't sustain large populations? .
book discussed theory low population amazon rainforest.	Which book discussed the theory about low populations in the Amazon rainforest?.
theorized maximum population density per square kilometre amazon rainforest.	What was the theorized maximum population density per square kilometre for the Amazon rainforest?.
1500 ad many people believed lived amazon region.	In 1500 AD how many people were believed to have lived in the Amazon region?.
1980s population amazon region.	In the 1980s what was the population of the amazon region?.
name book edited archaeologist betty meggers.	What is the name of the book edited by archaeologist Betty Meggers?.
long time believed heavily populated.	For a long time it was believed that what was heavily populated?.
claimed two inhabitant per square kilometer could sustained rain forest.	Who claimed that only two inhabitants per square kilometer could be sustained in the rain forest?.
betty meggers said hunting needed support large population.	Betty Meggers said that hunting was needed to support a large population where?.
200,000 people lived rain forest decade.	More than 200,000 people lived in a rain forest during what decade?.
first european travel amazon river.	Who was the first European to travel the Amazon River?.
time civilization amazon flourishing orellana made observation.	During what time did civilization in the Amazon was flourishing when Orellana made his observations?.
believed cause devastation civilization.	What was believed to be the cause of devastation to the civilization?.
long since geoglyphs first discovered deforested land.	How long since it's been that geoglyphs were first discovered on deforested land?.
time period geoglyphs date back.	What time period did the geoglyphs date back to?.
first european travel entire length amazon river.	Who was the first European to travel the entire length of the Amazon River?.
year first european travel entire length amazon river.	In what year did the first European travel the entire length of the Amazon River?.
geoglyphs dating period found deforested land along amazon river.	Geoglyphs dating to what period were found in deforested land along the Amazon River?.
given credit discovering geoglyphs along amazon river.	Who is given credit for discovering geoglyphs along the Amazon River?.
many year evidence shown human shaped amazon.	For how many years was evidence shown that humans shaped the the Amazon?.
first american travel amazon river.	Who was the first American to travel to Amazon River.
made exaggerated claim complex civilization amazon.	Who made exaggerated claims about a complex civilization in the Amazon?.
1540s region lacked complex civilization.	In the 1540s what region lacked a complex civilization?.
disease africa cause.	What do diseases from Africa cause?.
bbc's documentary presented evidence amazon pristine wilderness least long.	The BBC's documentary presented evidence that the Amazon had been a pristine wilderness for at least how long?.
terra preta called.	What is terra preta called?.
much terra preta distributed amazon forest.	How much is terra preta distributed over the Amazon forest?.
development fertile soil provide hostile environment.	What did the development of this fertile soil provide in hostile environment?.
region tribe large settlement discovered.	In which region tribe were large settlements discovered?.
discovered come.	Who discovered this and where did they come from?.
type soil considered product soil management indigenous people amazon forest.	What type of soil is considered a product of soil management by indigenous peoples in the Amazon Forest?.
development terra preta allowed happen amazon forest.	The development of Terra Preta allowed for what to happen in the Amazon Forest?.
land attributed tribe found remains large settlement.	In lands attributed to what tribe are found remains of large settlements?.
credited finding evidence large settlement amazon forest.	Who is credited with finding evidence of large settlements in the Amazon forest?.
evidence type structure found 2003.	Evidence for what types of structures were found in 2003?.
terra preta distributor small area.	Terra preta is distributor over a small area of what?.
product foreign soil management.	What is a product of foreign soil management?.
small portion amazon forest result.	Only small portions of the Amazon forest are a result of what?.
2000 found evidence large settlement amazon rain forest.	In 2000 who found evidence of a large settlement in the Amazon rain forest?.
poor soil found much amazon force result.	The poor soil found over much of the Amazon force is a result of what?.
many specie insect known region.	How many species of insects are known in the region?.
portion bird specie make world's total live rainforest.	What portion of bird species make up the world's total live in the rainforest?.
many plant specie make total rainforest.	How many plant species make up the total in the rainforest?.
total make fish specie living amazon.	What is the total make up of fish species living in the Amazon?.
many invertebrate specie known brazil alone.	How many invertebrate species are known in Brazil alone? .
amazon region home many specie insect.	The Amazon region is home to how many species of insect?.
many specie bird mammal amazon region.	How many species of bird and mammals are there in the Amazon region?.
many plant specie estimated amazon region.	How many plant species are estimated to be in the Amazon region?.
many reptile discovered amazon region.	How many reptiles have been discovered in the Amazon region?.
amount bird specie earth found amazon rainforest.	What amount of bird species on earth are found in the Amazon rainforest?.
region home 25 million.	The region is home to 25 million what?.
one seven world bird specie live.	One in seven of the worlds bird species live where?.
96,660 128,843 vertebrate specie live.	Between 96,660 and 128,843 vertebrate species live where?.
amazon river stream contain many reptile.	The Amazon rivers and streams contain how many reptiles?.
many kilometer acre ecuadorian rainforest supported.	How many kilometers of acres of the Ecuadorian rainforest is supported?.
many tree specie rainforest.	How many tree species are in the rainforest?.
many ton living plant rainforest.	How many tons of living plants are in the rainforest?.
average plant biosmass.	What is the average plant biosmass?.
number plant specie economics social interest.	What is the number of plant species in economics and social interest?.
amazon region rate among entire earth amount biodiversity.	Where does the Amazon region rate among the entire earth for its amount of biodiversity?.
many tree specie found one square kilometer ecuadorian rainforest 2001.	How many tree species were found in one square kilometer of Ecuadorian rainforest in 2001?.
many ton live plant found live one square kilometer amazon rainforest 1999.	How many tons of live plants were found to live in one square kilometer of the Amazon rainforest in 1999?.
average weight biomass per hectare amazon.	What is the average weight of the biomass per hectare in the Amazon?.
many plant specie interest society manufacturer exist amazon rainforest.	How many plant species are of interest to society and manufacturers exist in the amazon rainforest?.
biodiversity lowest earth.	The biodiversity of what is the lowest on earth?.
rain forced support 11,003 specie.	What rain forced supports more than 11,003 species.
1999 study found 100 km² rain forest contain many living plant.	A 1999 study found that 100 km² of rain forest contain how many living plants?.
4380 specie registered.	4380 species of what have been registered?.
remain discovered.	There there are very few what remain to be discovered?.
animal life amazon river may produce deadly shock.	Which animal that lives in the Amazon river may produce a deadly shock?.
large predator amazon rainforest include jaguar, cougar, anaconda, one example.	Large predators of the Amazon rainforest include the jaguar, cougar, and anaconda, what is one other example?.
fish living amazon river known bit human.	What fish living in the Amazon river is known to bit humans?.
dart frog known secrete.	What are dart frogs are known to secrete?.
type bat life amazon rainforest spread rabies.	What type of bat that lives in the Amazon rainforest can spread rabies?.
animal living amazon river produce mild shock.	Which animal living in the Amazon River produces a mild shock?.
among smallest predatory creature black caiman.	Among the smallest predatory creatures are the black Caiman and what?.
piranha actually.	Piranha did not actually do what?.
various specie lizard secrete.	Various species of lizards secrete what?.
vampire bat actually spread.	Vampire bats do not actually spread what?.
process removing tree forest known.	What is the process of removing trees from a forest known as?.
acessing amazon rainforest restricted era.	Acessing the Amazon rainforest was restricted before what era?.
method used clear forest crop cultivation amazon forest.	What method was used to clear forest for crop cultivation in the amazon forest?.
two factor made difficult colonist amazon forest survive.	What are two factors that made it difficult for colonists to the Amazon forest to survive?.
notable amazon forest seen space.	What is notable about the Amazon forest when it is seen from space?.
process growing tree forest known.	The process of growing more trees in the forest is known as what?.
assessing amazon rain forest restricted era.	Assessing the Amazon rain forest was restricted after what era?.
prior 1960 method used clear forest.	Prior to 1960 what method was used to clear forest?.
productive long period time amazon.	What is productive for a long period of time in the Amazon?.
area heavy forest visible naked eye.	Areas of heavy forest are visible to the naked eye from where?.
many square kilometre amazon forest lost 1991.	How many square kilometres of the Amazon forest was lost by 1991?.
year 2000 many square kilometre amazon forest lost.	In the year 2000 how many square kilometres of the Amazon forest had been lost?.
cleared land amazon region used.	What is most of the cleared land in the Amazon region used for?.
brazil ranked globally soybean production.	Where is Brazil ranked globally in soybean production?.
percentage land cleared amazon used growing livestock.	What percentage of the land cleared in the Amazon is used for growing livestock?.
41,500 square kilometre amazon force lost year.	41,500 square kilometres of Amazon force were lost between what years?.
second smallest global producer soybean.	What is the second smallest global producer of soybean?.
91% used farming.	91% of what is used for farming?.
showed blogging increase precipitation amazon.	Who showed that blogging increases precipitation in the Amazon?.
highway built amazon rainforest built primarily kind farmer.	Highways built in the Amazon rainforest were built primarily for what kind of farmers?.
creating highway amazon rainforest lead.	What did creating highways in the Amazon rainforest lead to?.
rate clearing forest 2000 2005 many square mile per year.	The rate of clearing of forest from 2000 to 2005 was how many square miles per year?.
much higher rate deforestation 2000, 2005 compared 1995 2000.	How much higher was the rate of deforestation in 2000, to 2005 compared to 1995 to 2000?.
happened rate deforestation amazon region brazil 2004 2014.	What happened to the rate of deforestation in the Amazon region of Brazil between 2004 and 2014?.
type farmer opposed many transportation project amazon.	What type of farmers have opposed many of the transportation projects in the Amazon?.
unsuccessful opening rain forced emily decrease settlement.	What was unsuccessful in opening the rain forced Emily to decrease settlement?.
deforestation decreased 18% year.	The deforestation decreased by 18% during what years?.
deforestation increased brazil year.	deforestation increased in Brazil during what years?.
type project widely supported.	What type of projects are widely supported?.
environmentalist concerned losing amazon forest.	What are environmentalists concerned about losing in the Amazon forest?.
loss biodiversity may result what, according environmentalist.	The loss of biodiversity may be the result of what, according to environmentalists?.
environmentalist concerned released amazon region.	What are environmentalists concerned about having released from the Amazon region?.
amount world carbon stored amazon forest.	What amount of the worlds carbon is stored in the Amazon forest?.
many metric ton carbon believed stored amazon forest.	How many metric tons of carbon are believed to be stored in the Amazon forest?.
loss biodiversity concern.	Loss of biodiversity is not a concern of what?.
release carbon contained vegetation slow.	Release of carbon contained in vegetation will slow down what?.
amazon forest store percentage world's carbon dioxide.	The Amazon forest stores what percentage of the world's carbon dioxide.
many metric ton carbon believed released amazon rain forest year.	How many metric tons of carbon are believed to be released from the Amazon rain forest each year?.
change condition may make amazon rainforest unsustainable.	What change in conditions may make the Amazon rainforest unsustainable?.
complete loss rainforest cover may caused type emission.	A complete loss of rainforest cover may be caused by what type of emissions?.
one computer model turn correct, year would nearly complete loss rainforest amazon basin.	If one computer model turns out correct, by what year would there be a nearly complete loss of rainforest in the Amazon basin?.
long may amazon rainforest threatened, according computer model.	How long may the Amazon rainforest be threatened, according to some computer models?.
main threat facing amazon rainforest current century.	What are the main threats facing the Amazon rainforest in the current century?.
increased rainfall decreased temperature may make unsustainable.	Increased rainfall and decreased temperatures may make what unsustainable?.
decrease greenhouse gas may lead complete loss.	A decrease in greenhouse gases may lead to a complete loss of what?.
computer model suggest rain forest become threatened.	Some computer models suggest the rain forest will become threatened after what?.
hunting population main threat facing.	Hunting and population are the main threats facing what?.
simulation consistent across different model.	Simulation of what is consistent across different models?.
kind territory destroyed ecocide amazon.	What kind of territories are being destroyed by ecocide in the Amazon?.
type conservation effort gaining attention amazon.	What type of conservation effort is gaining attention in the Amazon?.
indigenous territory largely destroyed two way.	Indigenous territories are largely being destroyed in what two ways?.
peruvian amazon indigienous people one group struggling amazon, another group.	The Peruvian Amazon indigienous people are one group struggling in the Amazon, what is another group?.
growing interest indigenous group amazon.	There is growing interest in what indigenous group in the Amazon?.
modern settlement continue destroyed.	Modern settlements continue to be destroyed by what?.
community-based conservation effort replaced.	Community-based conservation efforts are being replaced where.
peruvian amazon indigenous people group continue grow amazon.	The Peruvian Amazon indigenous people and what other group continue to grow in the Amazon?.
relationship human gained increased attention.	Where has a relationship between humans gained increased attention?.
indigenous territory preserved type conservation effort.	Indigenous territories are being preserved through what type of conservation efforts?.
kind sending technology used protect tribal land amazon.	What kind of sending technology is being used to protect tribal lands in the Amazon?.
tribe us gps device map land.	What tribe uses GPS devices to map lands?.
tribal member living rainforest region using google earth.	Tribal members living in the rainforests of what region are using Google Earth?.
tribe use google earth gps.	What do tribes use Google Earth and GPS for?.
tribe use remote sensing technology.	Why do some tribes use remote sensing technology?.
on-site sensing used indigenous tribe.	On-site sensing is being used by indigenous tribes for what.
make easier government target tribal territory.	What makes it easier for the government to target tribal territories?.
amazon clearly defined boundary.	Most what in the Amazon have clearly defined boundaries?.
commercial venture using handheld gps google map undermine indigenous tribe.	Commercial ventures are using handheld GPS and Google maps to undermine the indigenous tribes what??.
drawing map inset ancestral land.	Who is drawing maps of their inset ancestral lands?.
classifying stage important mapping aspect amazon.	Classifying the stages of what is important to mapping aspects of the Amazon?.
classification aspect amazon forest important mapping type emission.	The classification of aspects of the Amazon forest is important for mapping what type of emission?.
organized tree amazon four category.	Who organized the trees of the Amazon into four categories?.
year one individual suggest classifying tree amazon four category.	In what year did one individual suggest classifying the trees of the Amazon into four categories?.
type radar used classify tree four category.	What type of radar was used to classify trees into four categories?.
classification tree decay important.	The classification of tree decay is important to what?.
organized tree world four category.	Who organized the trees of the world into four categories?.
type radar used classify forest plant type.	What type of radar was used to classify the forest by plant type?.
used classify amazon population four category.	What was used to classify the Amazon population into four categories.
classified 2008.	What was classified in 2008?.
year amazon experience worst drought recent history.	In what year did the Amazon experience its worst drought of recent history?.
organization predicted amazon forest could survive three year drought.	What organization predicted that the Amazon forest could survive only three years of drought?.
organization argued drought, among effects, could cause amazon forest reach "tipping point".	What organization argued that drought, among other effects, could cause the Amazon forest to reach a "tipping point?".
along drought, one factor pushing amazon rainforest towards tipping point.	Along with drought, what is one other factor that is pushing the Amazon rainforest towards a tipping point?.
might amazon forest become pass tipping point start die.	What might the Amazon forest become if it passes the tipping point and starts to die?.
year amazon basin experience worst drought 1000 year.	In what year did the Amazon basin experience is worst drought in 1000 years?.
organization predicted amazon force could survive three year drought.	What organization predicted that the Amazon force could survive more than three years of drought.
drought overpopulation pushing force towards.	Drought and overpopulation are pushing to the force towards what?.
rain forest died would little effect.	The rain forest died there would be little effect on what?.
savanna desert replaced amazon.	Savanna and desert were replaced by what in the Amazon?.
year amazon experience drought may extreme 2005.	In what year did the Amazon experience a drought that may have been more extreme than in 2005?.
many square mile large region impacted 2010 drought.	How many square miles large was the region impacted by the 2010 drought?.
many area impacted death vegetation 2010 drought.	How many areas were impacted by the the death of vegetation in the 2010 drought?.
southern part amazon forest mainly impacted drought year.	The southern part of the Amazon forest was mainly impacted by drought in what year?.
many ton carbon absorbed amazon typical year.	How many tons of carbon are absorbed the Amazon in a typical year?.
amazon rain forest experienced another mild drought year.	Amazon rain forest experienced another mild drought in what year.
amazon release much carbon dioxide year.	The Amazon releases how much carbon dioxide each year?.
2010 drought three vegetation increased.	The 2010 drought had three what were vegetation increased?.
2005 force absorbed much carbon dioxide.	In 2005 the force absorbed how much carbon dioxide?.
2010 force absorbed 8 gt.	In 2010 the force absorbed 8 Gt of what.
ctenophora.	What is a ctenophora?.
ctenophora use swim.	What does the ctenophora use to swim?.
ctenophora use digestion respiration.	What does ctenophora use for digestion and respiration?.
large ctenophora grow.	How large can ctenophora grow?.
distinctive feature ctenophora.	What is the most distinctive feature of ctenophora?.
ctenophora commonly known.	What are ctenophora commonly known as?.
big ctenophora grow.	How big can ctenophora grow?.
ctenophora rely digestion respiration.	What does ctenophora rely on for digestion and respiration?.
ctenophora mean greek.	What does ctenophora mean in Greek?.
ctenophora live.	Where do ctenophora live?.
cnidarian commonly called.	What are cnidarians commonly called?.
distinctive feature cnidarian.	What is the most distinctive feature of cnidarians?.
cnidarian use comb.	What do cnidarians use their combs for?.
group cillia classified due increasing awareness difference.	How are groups of cillia classified due to increasing awareness of differences?.
many type cnidarian discovered worldwide.	How many types of cnidarians have been discovered  worldwide?.
many specie ctenophora validated.	How many species of Ctenophora have been validated?.
little tentacle cydippids called.	What are the little tentacles that cydippids have called?.
much food ctenophora eat day.	How much food does a ctenophora eat in a day?.
coastal beroids ctenophora.	What do coastal beroids not have that other ctenophora have?.
coastal beriods use teeth.	What does coastal beriods use as teeth?.
much ctenophore eat day.	How much do ctenophore eat in a day?.
small tentacle cydippids called.	What are the small tentacles on Cydippids called?.
beriods use teeth.	What do Beriods use as teeth?.
cydippids use capture prey.	What do Cydippids use to capture their prey?.
many different specie ctenohore.	How many different species of ctenohore are there?.
rotifer act looking meal.	How do rotifers act as when looking for a meal?.
much rotifer able eat one day.	How much is a rotifer able to eat in one day?.
many specie rotifer discovered.	How many species of rotifers have been discovered?.
many specie rotifer yet named.	How many species of rotifers are yet to be named?.
specie rotifer instead predator.	What do some species of rotifers do instead of being predators?.
unique hermaphrodite.	What is unique about  a hermaphrodite?.
simultaneous hermaphrodite.	What can a simultaneous hermaphrodite do?.
type hermaphrodite produce egg sperm different time.	What type of hermaphrodite produces egg and sperm at different times?.
specie egg fertilized kept inside parent body hatched.	Which species eggs are fertilized and kept inside the parents body until hatched?.
cause population ctenophora grow explosive rate.	What causes the population of ctenophora to grow at an explosive rate?.
hermaphrodite.	What is a hermaphrodite?.
unique simultaneous hermaphrodite.	What is unique about  simultaneous hermaphrodites?.
trait sequential hermaphrodite.	What is a trait of sequential hermaphrodites?.
group keep egg fertilized kept inside parent's body hatch.	Which group keep the eggs are fertilized and kept inside the parent's body until they hatch?.
group young born tentacle large mouth.	Which group has young that are born with no tentacles and a large mouth?.
plankton reproduce.	How do plankton reproduce?.
plankton fertilize egg.	How do plankton fertilize their eggs?.
happens plankton mature.	What happens to plankton when they mature?.
juvenile plankton able becoming adult.	When are some juvenile plankton able to do before becoming an adult?.
quickly plankton population grow due hermaphrodism early reproduction.	How quickly do plankton populations grow due to hermaphrodism and early reproduction?.
beroe eat.	What does the Beroe eat? .
introduces black sea.	What was introduces into the Black Sea?.
mnemiopsis eat.	What does  mnemiopsis eat?.
ctenophore found large number.	Where do ctenophores be found in large numbers?.
ctenophore found large amount.	Where can ctenophores be found in large amounts?.
phytoplankton.	What are phytoplankton?.
ctenophore accidentally introduced black sea.	What ctenophore was accidentally introduced into The Black Sea?.
event blamed introduction mnemiopsis black sea.	What event was blamed on the introduction of mnemiopsis into The Black Sea?.
done counteract overpopulation mnemiopsis black sea.	What was done to counteract the overpopulation of mnemiopsis in The Black Sea?.
copepod population abundant.	When are copepod populations abundant?.
area copepod like live.	What areas do copepods like to live?.
common copepod place.	How common are copepods in other places?.
sea copepod accidentially released.	What sea have copepods accidentially been released into?.
one thing copepod like eat.	What is one thing that copepods like to eat?.
cretaceous-paleogene extinction happen.	When did the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction happen?.
evidence indicates cydippids.	Evidence indicates that Cydippids are not what?.
old fossil found represent ctenophhores.	How old are the fossils found that represent ctenophhores ?.
fossil found represent ctenphores missing current ctenphora.	What were the fossils that were found to represent ctenphores missing that current ctenphora have?.
fossil found believed ctenophore old.	Fossils found that were believed to be ctenophores were how old?.
event happened 66 million year ago.	What event happened 66 million years ago?.
cypiddids.	Cypiddids are not what?.
current ctenophore fossil found.	What do current ctenophores have that fossils found did not have?.
time period lagerstatten first found.	In what time period were lagerstatten first found?.
molecular biologist believe lagerstatten closely related.	What do molecular biologists believe lagerstatten are closely related to?.
characteristic common ancestor lagerstatten.	What characteristics did the common ancestor of lagerstatten have?.
event lagerstatten thought appeared.	After what event are lagerstatten thought to have appeared?.
lagerstatten considered descendant.	What are lagerstatten considered to be descendants of?.
jellyfish an sea anemone belong phylum.	Jellyfish ans sea anemones belong to what phylum?.
make ctenophore different animal.	What makes ctenophores different from all other animals?.
ctenophora le complex phylum.	Ctenophora are less complex than which other phylum?.
phylum complex sponge.	Which phylum is more complex than sponges?.
ctenophore use capture prey.	What does ctenophore use to capture prey?.
jellyfish sea anemone belong group/.	Jellyfish and sea anemones belong to which group/.
ctenophore animal.	What do ctenophores have that no other animals have?.
ctenophore use capture prey.	What do ctenophore use to capture their prey?.
two group cell bound inter-cell connection membranes, muscles, nervous system sensory organ.	Which two groups have cells bound by inter-cell connections and membranes, muscles, a nervous system and sensory organs?.
ctenophore le complex group.	Ctenophores are less complex than what other group?.
connection bind sponge cell.	What connections bind sponge cells?.
kind organ sponge.	What kind of organs do some sponges have?.
distinguishes sponge animal.	What distinguishes sponges from all other animals?.
sponge use colloblasts catch.	What do sponges use their colloblasts to catch?.
sticky cell used capture prey missing sponge specie.	What sticky cells used to capture prey are missing from a few sponge species?.
jelly-like susbtance called.	What is the jelly-like susbtance called?.
ctenophore cnidarian classified.	Ctenophores and cnidarians are classified as what?.
group two layer cell middle layer mesoglea.	Which group has two layers of cells with a middle layer of mesoglea?.
ctenophores, cnidarian group labelled diploblastic.	Ctenophores, cnidarians and what other group are labelled diploblastic?.
sponge three main cell layer.	Sponges have three main cell layers and no what?.
jelly-like layer come complex animal.	Where does the jelly-like layer come from in complex animals?.
complex animal labeled jelly-like layer.	What are more complex animals labeled when they have a jelly-like layer?.
lack jelly-like layer also called complex animal.	What is the lack of a  jelly-like layer also called when in a complex animal?.
many layer cell sandwiched jelly-like layer complex animal.	How many layers of cells with a sandwiched jelly-like layer do complex animals have?.
hair ctenophore called.	What are the hairs on ctenophores called?.
cilium used.	What are cilia used for?.
comb like band cilium called.	Comb like bands of cilia are called what?.
ctenophore mean greek.	What does ctenophore mean in Greek?.
many type cilium.	How many types of cilia are there?.
long cillia grow ctenophore.	How long can the cillia grow on ctenophores?.
cilium use body.	What do cilia use their bodies for?.
body cilium also called.	What are the bodies of cilia also called?.
kind animal cilium considered.	What kind of animals are cilia considered?.
cidippid used description ctenophore textbook.	Which cidippid is used as a description on ctenophores in most textbooks?.
group ctenophore hardest study.	Which group of ctenophore are are hardest to study?.
coastal specie tough.	Why are coastal species tough?.
ctenophora study.	Which ctenophora have been studies the most?.
kind sediment particle.	What kind of sediment particles are there?.
area sediment particle typically found.	In what areas are sediment particles typically found?.
usually carry sediment particle one place another.	What usually carries sediment particles from one place to another?.
three type sediment partilces found.	What are three types of sediment partilces that have been found?.
many type sediment particle gained attention recently.	How many types of sediment particles have gained the most attention recently?.
inside ctenophore lined.	The inside of a ctenophore is lined with what?.
photocytes produce.	What do photocytes produce?.
throat called.	What is the throat called?.
internal cavity contain.	What does the internal cavity contain?.
active part ctenophora.	What are the most active parts of ctenophora?.
tentacle lined.	What are the tentacles lined with?.
mesoglea closed.	What can the mesoglea be closed by?.
mesoglea situated along underside.	What is the mesoglea situated along the underside of?.
mesoglea terminate.	What does the mesoglea terminate into?.
mesoglea different part canal system.	Where is the mesoglea different in other parts of the canal system?.
eight comb row outer surface called.	What are the eight comb rows on the outer surface called?.
comb called.	Combs are called what?.
9 +3 pattern cilium thought.	What does the 9 +3 pattern of cilia thought to do?.
direction ctenophore swim.	What direction do ctenophore swim?.
cilium g ow length.	Cilia can g ow up too what length?.
flagellum also called.	What are flagella also called?.
many type flagellum.	How many types of flagella are there?.
length flagellum grow.	To what length can flagella grow to?.
direction cilium usually swim.	What direction do cilia usually swim?.
kind behavior cilium participating reverse direction flagellum.	What kind of behavior are cilia participating in when they reverse direction with their flagella?.
ctenophore control buoyancy.	How do ctenophores control buoyancy?.
ciliary rosette pump water control buoyancy.	Ciliary rosettes pump water into what to control buoyancy?.
pumping water mesoglea.	What does pumping water into the mesoglea do?.
ciliary rosette decease bulk increase density.	What does the ciliary rosettes do to decease bulk and increase density?.
mesoglea control brackish body fluid.	How do mesoglea control how brackish body fluids are?.
mesoglea adapt relying brackish water.	What do mesoglea adapt to when relying on brackish water?.
volume normally concentrated.	What is volume normally as concentrated as?.
pumping regular seawater bulk.	What does pumping in regular seawater do to  its bulk?.
ciliary rosette need decrease density seawater.	Why do do ciliary rosettes need to decrease density in seawater?.
largest sensory feature ctenophora.	What is the largest sensory feature of the ctenophora?.
aboral organ located.	Where is the aboral organ located?.
protects statocyst.	What protects the statocyst?.
main component aboral organ.	What is the main component of the aboral organ?.
statocyst.	What is a statocyst?.
largest feature mouth.	What is the largest feature in the mouth?.
nervous system protected.	What is the nervous system protected by?.
nervous system made.	What is the nervous system made up of?.
cilium try keep transparent dome resting.	What does the cilia try to keep the transparent dome resting on?.
determines whether tentacle balancer.	What determines whether the tentacles are on the balancers or not?.
common coastal pleurobrachia called.	What is the common coastal pleurobrachia called?.
pleurobrachia opposite side body.	What does the pleurobrachia have on opposite sides of its body?.
cydippid typically shape.	Cydippid are typically what shape?.
long tentacle pleurbrachia protected.	The long tentacles on the pleurbrachia are protected by what?.
mouth located pleuobrachia located.	Where is the mouth located on the pleuobrachia located?.
mouth pleuobrachia kept.	What is the mouth of a pleuobrachia kept in?.
pleuobrachia mouth way.	What can the pleuobrachia do with its mouth when its in the way?.
happens sheath cydippids change size.	What happens to some sheaths on cydippids to change their size?.
sheath wider narrower size near mouth.	Are sheaths wider or narrower in size near the mouth?.
another name sheath mouth withdrawn.	What is another name for the sheath the mouth can be withdrawn to?.
tentacle cydipped ctenophore usually fringed.	What are the tentacles of cydipped ctenophores are usually fringed with?.
colloblasts.	What are colloblasts?.
make tentilla euplokamis different cysippids.	What makes the tentilla of euplokamis different from other cysippids?.
many type movement euplokamis tentilla.	How many types of movements do euplokamis tentilla have?.
euplokamis use three type movement.	What does the euplokamis use the three types of movement for?.
epidermis fringed.	What is the epidermis fringed with?.
shape tentilla typically.	What shape are tentilla typically?.
many component tentilla.	How many components do tentilla have?.
domed head tentilla.	What does the domed head of the tentilla have?.
vesticles tentilla contain.	What do the vesticles on tentilla contain?.
many row comb.	How many rows of combs are there?.
row comb located.	Where are the rows of combs located?.
comb spaced.	How are the combs spaced?.
run balancer statocyst comb row.	What runs from the balancer in the statocyst to the comb rows?.
many row statocysts.	How many rows of statocysts are there?.
kind rhythm statocysts.	What kind of rhythm do the statocysts have?.
statocysts spaced.	How are the statocysts spaced?.
statocysts alligned evenly spaced.	What are the statocysts alligned in when being evenly spaced?.
statocyst split connect.	What does the statocyst split to connect with?.
lobata pair.	What does the lobata have pair of?.
auricle.	What are auricles?.
many auricle specie.	How many auricles do most species have?.
auricle.	What do the auricles do?.
lobates feed.	What do lobates feed on?.
many lobe plankton.	How many lobes do plankton have?.
often plankton need feed.	How often do plankton need to feed?.
lobata plankton.	What are lobata in plankton?.
many auricle plankton.	How many auricles do plankton have?.
tentacle plankton help find prey.	What do the tentacles on plankton do to help them find prey?.
bathocyroe ocyropsis escape danger.	What does the bathocyroe and ocyropsis do to escape danger?.
happens bathocyroe ocyropsis clap lobe together.	What happens when bathocyroe and ocyropsis clap their lobes together?.
movement lobates comb controlled.	The movements of the lobates combs are controlled by what?.
cydippids comb controlled.	Cydippids combs are controlled by what?.
many lobe cilium.	How many lobes do cilia have?.
cilium moving water.	How are most cilia when moving through the water?.
kind auricle cilium.	What kind of auricles do cilia have?.
cilium aboral escape danger.	How do cilia and aboral escape from danger?.
happens cilium arbol clap lobe.	What happens when cilia and arbol clap their lobes?.
beroida known name.	Beroida are known by what other name?.
group feeding appendage.	What group has no feeding appendages?.
specie beroe pair strip adhesive cell stomach wall..	Some species of beroe have a pair of strips of adhesive cells on the stomach wall. What does it do?.
beroe pursuing prey.	What does the beroe do when pursuing prey?.
beroida instead feeding appendage.	What does the beroida have instead of feeding appendages?.
one thing cilium.	What is one thing cilia don't have?.
ephithelial cell fill nuda.	What do ephithelial cells fill most of in the Nuda?.
epithelial cell oral end.	What do epithelial cells have at the oral end?.
epithelial cell able prey large swallow.	What are epithelial cells able do do if prey is too large to swallow?.
large pharynx beroe feeding.	What does the large pharynx do in the Beroe when its not feeding?.
specie ribbon-shaped planktonic animal.	Which species are ribbon-shaped planktonic animals?.
cestida called.	What are cestida called?.
cestids swim.	How do cestids swim?.
largest ctenophore.	What is the largest ctenophore?.
specie move darting motion.	Which species moves by a darting motion?.
long aboral.	How long is the Aboral?.
aboral move.	How does the Aboral move?.
another name aboral.	What is another name for the Aboral?.
shape aboral usually.	What shape does the Aboral usually have?.
mouth located aboral.	Where is the mouth located on an Aboral?.
platyctenida aboral surface.	What do most platyctenida have on their aboral surface?.
platyctenida use pharynx.	What do platyctenida use their pharynx for?.
one platycenida specie lack.	What do all but one platycenida species lack?.
platycenida live.	Where do platycenida live?.
aboral use comb row.	What does the Aboral use its comb rows as?.
body shape aboral.	What body shape does the Aboral have?.
many tentacle aboral pharynx.	How many tentacles does the Aboral have on its pharynx?.
one kind aboral lack.	What do all but one kind of Aboral lack?.
aboral usually live.	Where do Aboral usually live?.
egg sperm released.	How are eggs and sperm released?.
platyctenids reproduce.	How do platyctenids reproduce?.
genus self-fertilization seen.	What genus has self-fertilization been seen?.
gonad located.	Where are the gonads located?.
fertilization internal exeternal specie.	Is fertilization  internal or exeternal in most species?.
specie genus ocryopsis function time.	What do most species of the genus Ocryopsis function as at the same time?.
kind chamber specie genus ocryopsis keep egg hatch.	In what kind of chamber do species in the genus Ocryopsis keep their eggs until they hatch?.
released pore comb row.	What is released by pores in the comb rows?.
sometimes seen specie genus ocryopsis.	What has sometimes been seen in species of the genus Ocryopsis?.
specie genus ocryopsis thought.	What are most species of the genus Ocryopsis thought to be?.
juvenile adult beroe lack.	Juvenile and adult  beroe lack what?.
juvenile platyctenids live.	Where do juvenile platyctenids live?.
juvenile develop adult.	When do juvenile develop into adults?.
juvenile platyctenids act like.	Juvenile platyctenids act like what?.
genus lack tentacle sheath.	Which genus lack tentacles and sheaths?.
larva develop.	How does the larvae develop?.
bottom-dwelling platyctenids usually lack like adult.	What do bottom-dwelling platyctenids usually lack like the adults?.
juvenile behave like genus beroe.	What do the juveniles behave like in the genus Beroe?.
genus beroe usually live among juvenile.	What does the genus Beroe usually live among as juveniles?.
kind area genus beroe juvenile live that's different parent.	What kind of area do the genus Beroe juveniles live in that's different than their parents?.
bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis eurhamphaea vexilligera common.	What do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera have in common?.
bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis eurhamphaea vexilligera excrete secretion.	When do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera  excrete secretions?.
secretion commonly called.	What are the secretions commonly called?.
adult juvenile secretion luminesce brighter.	Do adults or juveniles secretions luminesce brighter?.
bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis euhamphaea veilligera produce change color.	What do Bathyctena chuni, Euplokamis stationis and Euhamphaea veilligera produce only when they change color?.
ctenophore different color.	Are most ctenophores the same or a different color?.
happens ocean water absorbs certain wavelength.	What happens to ocean water when it absorbs certain wavelengths?.
ocean water luminescence certain animal.	What does ocean water do to luminescence from certain animals?.
proven released ctenophore becaue environment.	What has been proven is released by ctenophores becaue of their environment?.
ctenophore predators, vegetarian parasitic.	Are ctenophores predators, vegetarian or parasitic?.
haeckelia prey mostly animal.	Haeckelia prey mostly on what animal?.
happens jellyfish nematocysts eaten haeckelia.	What happens to the jellyfish nematocysts when they are eaten by the haeckelia?.
bolinopsis generally eat.	What does the bolinopsis generally eat?.
name two-tentacled cydippid feedsentirely salp called.	What is the name of the two-tentacled cydippid that feedsentirely on salps called?.
much food crustacean larva eat per day.	How much food can crustacean larvae eat per day?.
zooplankton usually prey.	What do zooplankton usually prey on?.
member genus haeckelia usually capture adult version.	What do Members of the genus Haeckelia usually capture the adult version of?.
smaller weaker swimmer amphipod feed.	What smaller weaker swimmers do amphipods feed on?.
pleurobrachia incorporate tentacle.	What does Pleurobrachia incorporate into their own tentacles?.
thought ctenophore poor diet animal.	Why was it thought that  ctenophores were a poor diet for other animals?.
oncorhynchus also called.	What is the oncorhynchus also called?.
beroids typically eat.	What do beroids typically eat?.
herbivorous fish seen feeding gelatinous zooplankton.	Where have herbivorous fishes been seen feeding on gelatinous zooplankton?.
turtle jellyfish eat large quantity.	Turtles and jellyfish can eat large quantities of what?.
salmon used regarded marine food chain.	What did salmon used to be regarded as in marine food chains?.
hard identify remains salmon.	Where is it hard to identify the remains of salmon in?.
quickly shrimp digest ctenophore compared prey.	How quickly do shrimp digest ctenophores as compared to other prey?.
kind diet salmon provide predator.	What kind of diet can salmon provide to other predators?.
kind population wiped temporarily shrimp.	What kind of populations can be wiped out temporarily by shrimp?.
blamed causing sharp drop fish catch black sea sea azov.	What is blamed for causing the sharp drop in fish catches in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?.
ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced black sea sea azov.	How was the ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced into The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?.
ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced black sea sea azov.	When was ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced into The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?.
population mnemiopsis black sea sea azov brought control.	How was the population of mnemiopsis in The black Sea and the Sea of Azov brought under control?.
cooling local environment affect mnemiopsis.	How does cooling of the local environment affect the mnemiopsis?.
fish larva introduced black sea accidentally.	When were fish larvae introduced into the Black Sea accidentally?.
sea fish larva accidentially introduced.	What other sea had fish larvae accidentially introduced into it?.
fish larva accidentally get introduced two body water.	How did fish larvae accidentally get introduced into the two bodies of water?.
fish larva caused sharp drop.	What has the fish larvae caused a sharp drop in?.
quickly fish larva grow.	How quickly can fish larvae grow?.
ctenophore extremely rare fossil.	Why are ctenophores extremely rare as fossils?.
ediacaran eoandromeda regarded represent.	Ediacaran eoandromeda can be regarded to represent what?.
period called 505 million year ago.	What was the period called that was 505 million years ago?.
many specie found burgess shale.	How many species were found in the Burgess Shale?.
fossil found burgess shale lack.	What did the  fossils found in the Burgess Shale lack?.
first tentacle form ctenophore.	When did the first tentacles form on ctenophores?.
many prominent tentacle found 1996.	How many prominent tentacles were found 1996?.
long ago ediacaran period.	How long ago was the Ediacaran period?.
kind structure typical living lagerstatten.	What kind of structures are typical in living lagerstatten?.
year edicaran eoandromeda named.	In what year was the Edicaran Eoandromeda named?.
old fossil found china.	How old were the fossils found in China?.
type fossil found china.	What type of fossils were found in China?.
genus considered "aunt" ctenophore.	Which genus is considered the "aunt" of ctenophores?.
stromatoveris similair genus.	Stromatoveris is similair to which genus?.
vendobionta lived period.	Vendobionta lived during which period?.
genus considered aunt vendobionta.	What genus is considered the aunt of Vendobionta?.
period emergence feeding mechanism come.	What period did the emergence of feeding mechanisms come from?.
simon conway find branch lagerstatte.	What did Simon Conway find on the branches of lagerstatte?.
vendobionta's descendant become.	What did Vendobionta's descendants become?.
vendobionta's descendant change cilium.	What did Vendobionta's descendants change their cilia to?.
recent study believe ctenophore sister lineage.	Recent studies believe  that ctenophores are the sister lineage to what?.
researcher believe earliest-diverging animal phylum.	What do some researchers believe is the earliest-diverging animal phylum is?.
animal phylum lack.	What do all other animal phyla lack?.
researcher believe porifera evolved developed neural cell.	How do other researchers believe Porifera evolved and developed its neural cells?.
cnidaria sometimes categorized instead ctenophora.	What is Cnidaria sometimes categorized as instead of Ctenophora?.
understanding neural muscle cell type important understanding.	What is the understanding of neural and muscle cell types important to our understanding of?.
presence hox gene focus many year.	What has the presence of hox genes been the focus of for many years?.
genus ctenophore cydipped-like larva.	Which genus of ctenophores does not have cydipped-like larvae?.
molecular phylogeny analysis confirmed cydippid.	A molecular phylogeny analysis confirmed that cydippid are not what?.
cretaceous-paleogen extinction occur.	When was the Cretaceous-Paleogen extinction occur?.
morphologically analysis 1985 concluded cydippids monophyletic.	Who did a morphologically analysis in 1985 that concluded cydippids are not monophyletic?.
concluded richard harbison 2001 beroids.	What was concluded by Richard Harbison in 2001 about beroids?.
beroids similar bilaterians.	What are beroids more similar to than other bilaterians?.
time period lobata, cestida thalassocalycida become extinct.	In what time period did the Lobata, Cestida and Thalassocalycida become extinct?.
kind analysis harbison conclude 2001 lobata.	What kind of analysis did Harbison conclude in 2001 about the Lobata?.
many specie cestida found 1985.	How many species of Cestida were found in 1985?.
city fifth-largest city california.	Which city is the fifth-largest city in California?.
far fresno los angeles.	How far is Fresno from Los Angeles?.
name fresno mean spanish.	What does the name Fresno mean in Spanish?.
featured city fresno's city flag.	What is featured on the city of Fresno's city flag?.
pronounce fresno.	How do you pronounce Fresno?.
population los angeles.	What is the population of Los Angeles?.
sacramento mean spanish.	What does Sacramento mean in Spanish?.
large san joaquin valley.	How large is the San Joaquin Valley?.
valley los angeles located.	What valley is Los Angeles located in?.
fresno capital state.	Fresno is the capital of what state?.
central pacific railroad established station new line year.	The Central Pacific Railroad established a station for its new line in what year?.
reason resident moved town fresno station.	What were the reasons why residents moved to the town of Fresno Station?.
year fresno become incorporated city.	In what year did Fresno become an incorporated city?.
many streetcar fresno traction company operate 1931.	How many streetcars did the Fresno Traction Company operate in 1931?.
entity sparked growth fresno station.	What entity sparked the growth of Fresno Station?.
central pacific railroad founded.	When was the Central Pacific Railroad founded?.
millerton resident move fresno.	When did Millerton residents move out of Fresno?.
long southern pacific line.	How long was the Southern Pacific line?.
fresno traction company come fresno.	When did the Fresno Traction Company come to Fresno?.
fresno resident move flooding.	Where did Fresno residents move to during the flooding?.
1940, percentage population fresno asian.	In 1940, what percentage of the population in Fresno was Asian?.
ethnic neighborhood fresno primarily japanese resident 1940.	What ethnic neighborhood in Fresno had primarily Japanese residents in 1940?.
1942, north fresno previously called.	In 1942, what was North Fresno previously called?.
pinedale assembly center.	What was the Pinedale Assembly Center?.
fresno fairground used.	What was the Fresno Fairgrounds used as?.
white population 1942 fresno.	What was the white population in 1942 in Fresno?.
percentage pinedale black.	What percentage of Pinedale is black?.
year chinatown founded.	What year was Chinatown founded?.
area fresno fresno fairground located.	What area of Fresno were the Fresno Fairgrounds located in?.
area renamed pinedale.	What area was renamed Pinedale?.
new product bank america introduce 1958.	What new product did Bank of America introduce in 1958?.
name first successful credit card.	What was the name of the first successful credit card?.
bankamericard allow customer previous financial instrument.	What did the BankAmericard allow customers do to that they couldn't do with previous financial instruments?.
year bankamericard change name.	In what year did BankAmericard change its name?.
present-day company bankamericard turn.	What present-day company did BankAmericard turn into?.
month bankamericard creator resign.	What month did the BankAmericard creator resign?.
original name bankamericard.	What was the original name of the BankAmericard?.
bankamericard could used across many merchant could.	The BankAmericard could be used across many merchants but could not do what?.
year bankamericard become successful.	What year did the BankAmericard become successful?.
visa inc. located.	Where is Visa Inc. located?.
wrote "walking fresno".	Who wrote "Walking in Fresno?".
recorded "walking fresno".	Who recorded "Walking in Fresno?".
town bill aiken grow.	In what town did Bill Aiken grow up?.
show bill aiken make television debut.	On what show did Bill Aiken make is television debut?.
bill aiken's adopted mother.	Who was Bill Aiken's adopted mother?.
song bob gallion write.	What song did Bob Gallion write?.
bill aken's ethnicity.	What was Bill Aken's ethnicity?.
owned wwva jamboree.	Who owned the WWVA Jamboree?.
show lupe mayorga star.	What show did Lupe Mayorga star in?.
singer hall fame.	What singer was in the Hall of Fame?.
many large public park fresno.	How many large public parks does Fresno have?.
park home fresno chafffee zoo.	Which park is home to the Fresno Chafffee Zoo?.
park home kearney mansion.	Which park is home to the Kearney Mansion?.
one park feature located north fresno.	Which is one of the park features located in North Fresno?.
park host largest civil war reenactment west coast.	Which park hosts the largest Civil War reenactment on the west coast?.
type garden roeding park.	What type of garden does Roeding Park have?.
park smallest.	Which park is the smallest?.
largest mansion west coast.	What is the largest Mansion in the west coast?.
long trail roeding park.	How long are the trails in Roeding Park?.
two city limit park located direction.	The two city limits parks are located in which direction?.
period downtown fresno thrive.	During what period did downtown Fresno thrive?.
two fresno's beautiful architectural building demolished.	What were two of Fresno's most beautiful architectural buildings that are now demolished?.
former building currently known grand 1401.	What former building is currently known as Grand 1401?.
one fresno's hotel burned.	Which one of Fresno's hotels burned down?.
fresno county courthouse demolished.	When was the Fresno County Courthouse demolished?.
pacific southwest building currently known.	What is the Pacific Southwest Building currently known as?.
happened bank italy building.	What happened to the Bank of Italy Building?.
grand 1401 building renamed.	What was the Grand 1401 building renamed as?.
name hotel renamed grand 1401.	What is the name of the hotel that was renamed the Grand 1401? .
year fresno get first pedestrian mall.	In what year did Fresno get its first pedestrian mall?.
pedestrian mall renamed.	What was the pedestrian mall renamed?.
artist piece artwork located fulton mall.	Which artist has a piece of his artwork located at the Fulton Mall?.
reopening, art piece located restoration.	After reopening, where will the art pieces be located after restoration?.
feature enrich pedestrian friendly environment restoration.	What feature will enrich the the pedestrian friendly environment after restoration?.
fulton street become main financial district.	When did Fulton Street become the main financial district?.
large pierre-auguste renoir piece.	How large is the Pierre-Auguste Renoir piece?.
fulton mall renamed.	What was Fulton Mall renamed as?.
28' minimum size.	28' is the minimum size of what?.
side street art piece.	What side of the street will the art pieces be on?.
neighborhood sunnyside located fresno.	Where is the neighborhood of Sunnyside located in Fresno?.
two major thoroughfare sunnyside.	What are the two major thoroughfares of Sunnyside?.
sunnside developed.	When was most of Sunnside developed?.
home sunnyside country club.	Where is the home of the Sunnyside Country Club?.
designed golf course located sunnyside country club.	Who designed the golf course located at the Sunnyside Country Club?.
designed sunnyside.	Who designed Sunnyside?.
decade country club built.	What decade was the country club built in?.
avenue west golf course.	What avenue is to the west of the golf course?.
king canyon avenue southeast side.	Kings Canyon Avenue is on the southeast side of what?.
chestnut avenue go.	Chestnut Avenue goes through what?.
tower district centered around historic theatre.	The Tower District is centered around which historic theatre?.
tower theatre built.	When was the Tower Theatre built?.
landmark within fresno tower theatre get name.	From what landmark within Fresno does the Tower Theatre get its name?.
original name california state university fresno.	What was the original name of California State University at Fresno?.
far fresno city college tower district.	How far is Fresno City College from the Tower District?.
landmark water tower built.	When was the landmark water tower built?.
fresno city college located two avenue.	Fresno City College is located at what two avenues?.
many mile north downtown fresno tower district neighborhood.	How many miles north of downtown Fresno is the Tower District neighborhood?.
fresno normal school stated.	When was the Fresno Normal School stated?.
california state university renamed.	What was the California State University renamed as?.
period tower theatre re-open.	During what period did the Tower Theatre re-open?.
re-opening, type movie tower theatre show.	After its re-opening, which types of movies did the Tower Theatre show?.
year roger rocka's dinner theater & good company player open.	In what year did Roger Rocka's Dinner Theater & Good Company Players open?.
audra mcdonald.	Where is Audra McDonald from?.
two leading role audra mcdonald perform high school.	Which two leading roles did Audra McDonald perform when she was in high school?.
tower theater closed.	When was the Tower Theater closed?.
roger rocka's dinner theater & good company player show.	What did Roger Rocka's Dinner Theater & Good Company Players show?.
year audra mcdonald perform role evita wiz.	What year did Audra McDonald perform the roles of Evita and The Wiz?.
type award roger rocka win.	What type of award did Roger Rocka win?.
reopened tower theatre.	Who reopened Tower Theatre?.
type theater neighborhood feature.	What type of theater do the neighborhoods feature?.
far apart neighborhood's feature.	How far apart are some of the neighborhood's features?.
area become attractive restaurant.	What area has become attractive for restaurants?.
fresno district center lgbt community.	Which Fresno district is the center for the LGBT community?.
district fresno known center heavy metal community.	Which district in Fresno is known as the center for the heavy metal community?.
long olive avenue.	How long is Olive Avenue?.
type nightclub fresno.	What type of nightclubs does Fresno have?.
tower district known renewal.	What was Tower District known for before the renewal?.
community avoid tower district.	What communities avoid Tower District?.
type home fresno known.	What type of homes is Fresno known for?.
type house designed fresno architect.	What types of houses are designed by Fresno architects?.
residential architecture tower district compare contrast part fresno.	Does the residential architecture of the Tower District compare or contrast with other part of Fresno?.
recently home fresno restored.	How recently has the homes in Fresno been restored?.
designed mission revival style architecture.	Who designed the Mission Revival Style architecture?.
area tower district similar architecture.	What area is the Tower District similar to in architecture?.
hilliard, taylor, wheeler work.	When did Hilliard, Taylor, and Wheeler work?.
california bungalow located north east.	Are California Bungalows located in the north or east?.
restored bungalow.	Who restored the Bungalows?.
boulevard find many majestic home area.	Which boulevard can you find many majestic homes in the area?.
mapped alta vista tract.	Who mapped the Alta Vista Tract?.
year developer billing & meyering acquire alta vista tract.	In what year did developers Billings & Meyering acquire the Alta Vista Tract?.
many home alta vista tract five year billing & meyering acquired.	How many homes did the Alta Vista Tract have five years after Billings & Meyering acquired it?.
company provided streetcar connection downtown hospital.	Which company provided streetcar connections between downtown and the hospital?.
planted alfalfa field.	Who planted the alfalfa fields?.
city grant property 1912.	Who did the City grant the property to in 1912?.
many home pacific improvement corporation build.	How many homes did the Pacific Improvement Corporation build?.
stalled development house.	What stalled the development of houses?.
fresno traction company begin provide streetcar connection.	When did the Fresno Traction Company begin to provide streetcar connections?.
another name west side fresno.	What is another name for the west side of Fresno?.
direction west side fresno neighborhood lie 99 freeway.	In which direction does the west side of Fresno neighborhood lie to the 99 freeway?.
west side fresno center ethnic community.	The west side of Fresno is the center of which ethnic community?.
two principal asian-american group living west side neighborhood fresno.	What are the two principal Asian-American groups living in the west side neighborhood of Fresno?.
neighborhood lie west 41 freeway.	Which neighborhood lies west of the 41 freeway?.
west west side.	What is west of the West Side?.
divide downtown fresno.	What divides Downtown Fresno?.
ethnic community traditionally found downtown.	What is ethnic community is traditionally found Downtown?.
specific group found within mexican-american population.	What specific groups are found within the Mexican-American population?.
significant age downtown fresno.	What is significant about the age of Downtown Fresno?.
kearney boulevard named.	Who is Kearney Boulevard named after?.
kind tree kearney boulevard lined.	What kinds of trees is Kearney Boulevard lined with?.
two street along kearney boulevard wealthy african-american one time residing.	Between which two streets along Kearney Boulevard were wealthy African-Americans at one time residing?.
name given section kearney boulevard effort change area image.	What was the name given to a section of Kearney Boulevard in efforts to change the areas image?.
area brookhaven still known high level crime.	What area of Brookhaven is still known for its high levels of crime?.
who kerman, california named.	Whos is Kerman, California named after?.
long fresno street.	How long is Fresno Street?.
preferred brookhaven section.	Who preferred the Brookhaven section?.
named thorne ave.	Who named Thorne Ave?.
gang entered west side 2008.	What gang entered the West Side in 2008?.
public housing development built neighborhood.	When were the public housing developments built in the neighborhood?.
corner shopping center located.	On which corner is the shopping center located?.
two processing facility neighborhood.	What are the two processing facilities in the neighborhood?.
airport located.	Where is the airport located?.
much retail activity neighborhood.	How much retail activity does the neighborhood have?.
organization built home neighborhood 1930s.	What organization built homes in the neighborhood in the 1930s?.
luxury home built corner.	Luxury homes were built on what corner?.
street golf course built.	On what street was the golf course built?.
problem fresno chandler airport plagued resident.	What problem from the Fresno Chandler Airport has plagued residents?.
state route 99 freeway built.	When was State Route 99 Freeway built?.
founded woodward park.	Who founded Woodward Park?.
many total acre woodward park.	How many total acres is Woodward Park?.
many seat amphitheatre woodward park.	How many seats does the amphitheatre at Woodward park have?.
many miles, completed, lewis s. eaton trail cover.	How many miles, once completed, will the the Lewis S. Eaton trail cover?.
month year woodward park open.	What months out of the year is Woodward Park open?.
ralph woodward come fresno.	When did Ralph Woodward come to Fresno?.
large woodward's estate total.	How large was Woodward's estate in total?.
lewis s. eaton donate.	What did Lewis S. Eaton donate?.
many people visit park day.	How many people visit the park each day?.
amphitheatre open.	When is the amphitheatre open?.
sierra sky park airport formed.	When was the Sierra Sky Park Airport formed?.
created nation's first aviation community.	Who created the nation's first aviation community?.
name first aviation community built.	What is the name of the first aviation community built?.
transportation law allows personal aircraft share roadway.	The transportation law allows personal aircraft to share the roadways with what?.
aviation community sierra sky park united state.	Are there any other aviation communities such as Sierra Sky Park in the United States?.
sierra sky park fall use.	When did the Sierra Sky Park fall out of use?.
created nation's aviation community.	Who created all of the nation's aviation communities?.
transportation law ban.	What did the transportation law ban?.
plane automobile divide separately.	What did planes and automobiles have to divide separately?.
community kind u.	What is the only community of its kind in the US?.
would one describe summer fresno.	How would one describe the summers in Fresno?.
month warmest fresno.	What month is the warmest in Fresno?.
much rain per year fresno get average.	How much rain per year does Fresno get on average?.
direction wind fresno originate.	In which direction does most of the wind in Fresno originate from?.
month fresno experience increased wind coming southeastern direction.	In which months does Fresno experience increased wind coming from the southeastern direction?.
many day august freezing.	How many days in August are below freezing?.
percentage hour light december.	What percentage of hours of light are there in December?.
increased wind direction july.	There is increased wind from what direction in July?.
average precipitation rate july.	What is the average precipitation rate in July?.
many day high reach 90 december.	How many days does the high not reach 90 in December?.
hottest temperature record fresno.	What is the hottest temperature record for Fresno?.
date record low temperature fresno.	On what date was the record low temperature in Fresno?.
year fresno experience rainfall.	In what year did Fresno experience the most rainfall?.
snow fresno ever.	What is the most snow Fresno has ever had?.
rainfall recorded 24 hour period fresno.	What is the most rainfall recorded in a 24 hour period in Fresno?.
record low july.	What is the record low for July?.
record high january.	What is the record high in January?.
rainfall recorded june.	What was the most rainfall recorded in June?.
much snow 1885.	How much did it snow in 1885?.
much rain 1962.	How much did it rain in 1962?.
fresno's population 2010.	what was Fresno's population in 2010?.
percentage whit people fresno 2010.	What was the percentage of whit people in Fresno in 2010?.
many native american people resided fresno 2010.	How many Native American people resided in Fresno in 2010?.
percentage non-hispanic white 2010.	What was the percentage of Non-Hispanic Whites in 2010? .
many people per square mile lived fresno 2010.	How many people per square mile lived in Fresno in 2010?.
u population 2010.	What was the US population in 2010?.
many native american 1970.	How many Native Americans were there in 1970?.
percentage fresno's population filipino 1970.	What percentage of Fresno's population was Filipino in 1970?.
racial group increased since 1970.	What racial group has increased since 1970?.
population density 1970.	What was the population density in 1970?.
many household kid age 18 living.	How many households has kids under the age of 18 living in them?.
percentage female householder husband present.	What was the percentage of a female householder with no husband present?.
many same-sex married couple partnership.	How many same-sex married couples or partnerships were there?.
average family size.	What was the average family size?.
average household size.	What was the average household size?.
percentage household child age 18.	What percentage of households had children over the age of 18?.
average family size wife present.	What was the average family size with no wife present?.
many unmarried opposite-sex partnership kid.	How many unmarried opposite-sex partnerships had kids?.
many same-sex partnership without kid.	How many same-sex partnerships without kids were there?.
many household someone alone age 18.	How many households had someone alone under the age of 18?.
many people lived fresno 2000, according census bureau.	How many people lived in Fresno in 2000, according to the Census Bureau? .
many housing unit 2000.	How many housing units were there in 2000?.
percentage black african-american living city.	What was the percentage of Black or African-Americans living in the city?.
many asian population hmong.	About how many of the Asian population was Hmong?.
population density 2000.	What was the population density in 2000?.
third pacific islander ethnicity.	A third of Pacific Islanders are what ethnicity?.
many family per square mile fresno.	How many families per square mile are there in Fresno?.
percentage white hispanic latino.	What percentage of whites are hispanic or latino?.
percentage population hmong.	What percentage of the population is Hmong?.
asian represent fraction hmong.	Asians represent what fraction of Hmong?.
fresno uhf television station.	Why does Fresno only have UHF television stations?.
first television station broadcast fresno.	What was the very first television station to broadcast in Fresno?.
kmj-tv first broadcast.	When did the KMJ-TV first broadcast?.
kmj referred.	What is KMJ now referred to?.
name cbs affiliate fresno.	What is the name of the CBS affiliate in Fresno?.
type station chico.	What type of stations does Chico have?.
first sacramento station called.	What was the first Sacramento station called?.
fcc decide fresno could uhf station.	When did the FCC decide Fresno could only have UHF stations?.
kmj originally known.	What was KMJ originally known as?.
fox affiliate salina.	What is the FOX affiliate in Salinas?.
route connects fresno california central valley.	What route connects Fresno with the California Central Valley?.
another name state route 168.	What is another name for State Route 168?.
another name yosemite freeway.	What is another name for the Yosemite Freeway?.
state route 180 come direction via mendota.	State Route 180 comes from which direction via Mendota?.
another name state route 99.	What is another name for State Route 99?.
state route 168 called sierra freeway two name.	State Route 168 is called the Sierra Freeway and what other two names?.
west state route 41.	What is west of State Route 41?.
name park atascadero.	What is the name of the park in Atascadero?.
state route 168 head west.	State Route 168 head west of what?.
largest city connected interstate highway.	Which is the largest city not connected to an interstate highway?.
year interstate highway system created.	In what year was the Interstate Highway System created?.
state route discussion upgrade interstate standard.	Which State Route has been in discussion to upgrade to interstate standards?.
factor contributing desire sr 99 improved interstate standard.	What are the factors that are contributing to the desire to have SR 99 improved to be of interstate standards?.
largest city directly linked interstate.	What is the largest city directly linked to an interstate?.
state route 99 built.	When was State Route 99 built?.
rapidly increasing interstate 5.	What was rapidly increasing by interstate 5?.
many people want integrate interstate 5.	What do many people want to integrate into interstate 5?.
side sr 99 built.	Which side is SR 99 built on?.
company provides train service fresno.	Which company provides train service in Fresno?.
santa fe railroad depot located.	Where is the Santa Fe Railroad Depot located?.
two railroad railyard city fresno.	What two railroads have railyards in the city of Fresno?.
take train west south city fresno, railroad would take.	If you were to take a train west or south out of the city of Fresno, which railroad would you take?.
city planned part california high speed rail.	Which city is planned to be a part of the California High Speed Rail?.
renovated santa fe railroad depot.	Who renovated the Santa Fe Railroad Depot?.
san joaquin valley railroad cross.	What does the San Joaquin Valley Railroad cross with?.
owns california high speed rail.	Who owns the California High Speed Rail?.
mainlines head west south city.	What mainlines head west and south from the city?.
took san joaquin valley railroad branchlines.	Who took over the San Joaquin Valley Railroad branchlines?.
paul baran develop.	What did Paul Baran develop .
distributed adaptive message block switching.	What did Distributed Adaptive Message Block Switching do.
concept contradict.	What did this concept contradict .
donald davy credited.	What is Donald Davies credited with .
paul baran develop late 1950's.	What did Paul Baran develop in the late 1950's.
goal system.	What was the goal of the system .
credited modern name system.	Who is credited with the modern name for this system .
late 1950s concept developed.	In the late 1950s what concept was developed?.
concept hope achieve.	What did the concept hope to achieve?.
much funding rand corporation receive.	How much funding did the RAND Corporation receive?.
independent work donald davis.	What was the independent work of Donald Davis?.
bell system.	What was the Bell System?.
u department defense gain funding rand corporation.	What did the US Department of Defense gain from their funding to RAND Corporation?.
credited paul baran development.	Who credited Paul Baran for his development? .
bell system created.	The Bell System was created by who?.
packet switching goal creating.	Packet Switching had a goal of creating what? .
created arpanet.	Who created ARPANET? .
paul baran develop distributed adaptive message block switching goal monetizing.	Did Paul Baran develop Distributed Adaptive Message Block Switching with the goal of monetizing it?.
paul baran assistance anyone developed concept.	Did Paul Baran has assistance from anyone when he developed the concept?.
development concept originally considered "classified" secret.	Was development of this concept originally considered "classified" or a secret?.
concept originally intended application meant use military.	Was this concept originally intended to be an application only meant for use by the military?.
concept generally unpopular prior donald davy completing work.	Why was this concept generally unpopular prior to Donald Davies completing his work?.
donald davy develop late 1950s.	What did Donald Davies develop in the late 1950s?.
rand corporation.	What did the RAND Corporation do?.
organization paul baran work united kingdom.	What organization did Paul Baran work with in the United Kingdom?.
created arpanet united state.	Who created ARPANET in the United States?.
fortified concept.	What fortified this concept?.
packet switching contrast principal.	Packet Switching contrast with what other principal .
circuit switching characterized.	What is circuit switching characterized by.
packet switching charecterized.	How is packet switching charecterized.
packet switching contrast.	What does Packet switching contrast with .
circuit switching allocated.	How is circuit switching allocated .
circuit switching charecterized.	How is circuit switching charecterized .
packet switching characterized.	How is packet switching characterized .
circuit switching.	What is Circuit Switching? .
much bandwidth dedicated communication session.	How much bandwidth is dedicated for each communication session?.
information charged packet switching.	How is information charged for packet switching?.
information charged differently circuit switching.	How is information charged differently for Circuit Switching?.
latency node.	What is latency between nodes?.
packet switching.	What is packet switching?.
packet switching communication kind bit rate.	Packet switching communication has what kind of bit rate? .
packet switching allocated.	How is Packet Switching allocated? .
packet switching speed determined factor.	Packet switching speed is determined by what factor? .
packet switching us kind network.	Packet switching uses what kind of network? .
size packet variable.	Are the sizes of packets variable?  .
packet size variable, always charged rate per packet.	If packet sizes are variable, then are they always charged at the same rate per packet?.
minimum amount, any, data make packet.	What is the minimum amount, if any, of data to make up a packet?.
packet sent empty so, billable.	Can a packet be sent empty?  If so, is it billable?.
circuit switching charge fee transferring kind information.	Circuit switching charges a fee for transferring what kind of information?.
packet switching charge fee data transferred.	Does packet switching charge a fee when no data is transferred?.
packet switching pre-allocate.	What does packet switching pre-allocate?.
special communication session packet switching.	What is special about communication sessions with packet switching?.
case shared physical medium delivered.	In cases of shared physical medium how are they delivered .
packet mode communication implemented.	How is packet mode communication implemented .
packet normally forwarded.	How are packets normally forwarded.
case shared medium delivered.	In cases with shared medium how is it delivered .
kind communication implemented.	What kind of communication can be implemented?.
packet delivered via route.	Packets can be delivered via what route? .
type medium 10base5 radio.	What type of medium is a 10BASE5 radio?.
intermediate forwarding node.	What are intermediate forwarding nodes?.
packet delivered differently.	How are packets delivered differently?.
case non shared medium packet delivered.	In cases of non shared medium how are packets delivered? .
case non shared physical medium packet delivered.	In cases of non shared physical medium how are packets delivered? .
packet irregularly forwarded.	How are packets irregularly forwarded? .
packet mode communication implemented.	When are packet mode communications not implemented? .
packet mode communication dissolved.	How are packet mode communications dissolved? .
many access point "multiple access scheme".	How many access points are in a "multiple access scheme"?.
certain packet take priority others sent exact time.	Do certain packets take priority over others if sent at the exact same time?.
packet lost so, go.	Can a packet be lost and if so, then where does it go?.
exactly "leaky bucket" term matter.	What exactly is a "leaky bucket" in terms of this matter?.
packet data physical mass.	Does a packet of data have physical mass?.
shared physical medium, packet delivered.	If there is no shared physical medium, how are the packets delivered?.
packet forwarded synchronously.	How are the packets forwarded synchronously?.
radio 10base5, packet delivered.	If there is no radio or 10BASE5, how are the packets delivered?.
way forward packet.	What is the only way to forward packets?.
guaranteed quality service.	What isn't a guaranteed quality of service?.
baran develop research rand.	What did Baran develop during research at RAND .
developed air force.	What was developed for the Air Force .
3 thing air force work key.	What 3 things does the Air Force work key on .
air force message delivered.	How are Air force messages delivered .
concept developed baran researching rand.	What concept was developed by Baran while researching at RAND.
report p-2626.	What was report P-2626.
thing network concentrate.	What  things did the network concentrate on .
delivery message used.	What delivery message was used .
developed summer 1961.	What was developed in the summer of 1961?.
idea report 1964 state.	What ideas did the report in 1964 state? .
many focus report p-2626.	How many focuses where there in report P-2626?.
owned rand company.	Who owned RAND Company?.
forward switching achieved.	How was forward switching achieved?.
presented briefing b-265 u air force.	Who presented briefing B-265 to the US Air Force?.
rm 3420 report.	What did RM 3420 report? .
u air force interested.	What was the US Air Force interested in? .
message delivered implementation.	How were messages delivered before implementation? .
air force interested message system.	What was the Air Force not interested in for their message system? .
baran develop "only" use air force.	Did Baran develop this "only" for use by the Air Force?.
rand corporation retain research.	Did the RAND corporation retain any of the research?.
developed air force, air force still technically intellectual property.	If this was developed for the Air Force, then does the Air Force still technically own the Intellectual Property?.
assuming air force paid development concept, would air force entitled royalty fee every packet sent.	Assuming the Air Force paid for the development of the concept, then would the Air Force be entitled to a royalty fee for every packet sent?.
rand corporation prohibited disclosing research anyone else except air force.	Was the RAND corporation prohibited from disclosing the research to anyone else except for the Air Force?.
developed rand corporation.	What was developed for the RAND Corporation?.
corporation deliver message.	How does the corporation deliver these messages?.
report r-2626.	What was Report R-2626?.
concept baran research u air force.	What concept did Baran research for the US Air Force?.
rand use network.	How did RAND use this network?.
donald davy develop.	What did Donald Davies Develop.
davy call system.	What did Davies call his system .
davy want build.	What did Davies want to build .
use suggested system.	What use was suggested for the system .
developed technology baran.	Who developed the same technology as Baran .
davy call system.	What did Davies call the System .
suggested symposium 1967.	What was suggested at the Symposium in 1967.
independently created separate system 1965.	How independently created a separate system in 1965?.
acm symposium held.	Where was the ACM Symposium held?.
arpanet simple term.	What does ARPANET in simple terms?.
ministry defense discussed 1966.	The Ministry of Defense discussed what in 1966?.
"independently developed" ever substantiated.	Has "independently developed" ever been substantiated?.
davy baran collaborate point developed concept.	Did Davies and Baran collaborate at any point after they both developed this concept?.
davy never research theory, concept, idea, etc. prior developing.	Why did Davies never research his theory, concept, idea, etc. prior to developing it?.
davy develop concept intention monetizing.	Did Davies develop his concept with the intention of monetizing it?.
worldwide network opposed simply uk network.	Why not a worldwide network as opposed to simply a UK only network?.
baran call system.	What did Baran call his system?.
lawrence robert suggest system used.	What did Lawrence Roberts suggest the system be used for?.
baran want build system.	What did Baran want to build with the system?.
davy tell baran's work.	Who did Davies tell about Baran's work?.
baran call message routing methodology.	What did Baran call his message routing methodology?.
packet includ connectionless mode.	What does each packet includ in connectionless mode .
packet routed.	How are the packets routed .
included packet label.	What is included with each packet label.
happens packet destination.	What happens to the packet at the destination.
result order delivery.	What results in out of order delivery?.
packet labeled correctly happen.	While packets are labeled correctly what can happen to them?.
packet arrive order.	Why do packets arrive out of order?.
data reassembled.	Where is the data reassembled? .
virtual connection.	What is a virtual connection?.
packet sent incomplete.	Can a packet be sent incomplete?.
three sequential packet sent one middle lost, data recompiled meaningful way.	If three sequential packets are sent and the one in the middle is lost, then how is the data recompiled in a meaningful way?.
packet ever sent wrong number.	Can a packet ever be sent to the wrong number?.
packet travel via different routes, arrive order.	If the packets travel via different routes, then how do they arrive in order?.
message labeled.	What is each message labeled with?.
message routed.	How are the messages routed?.
need dedicated path.	Why is there a need for a dedicated path?.
included data connectionless mode.	What is included in the data in connectionless mode?.
connection orientation require.	What does connection orientation require.
connection identifier.	What is a connection identifier .
node requiered look.	Why is the node requiered to look up .
packet header long.	Is the packet header long .
set phase.	What is a set up phase? .
error checking involved delivery.	How is error checking involved in delivery? .
routing packet required system.	A routing packet is required under what system? .
node read.	What does the node read?.
value negotiable.	What values are negotiable? .
packet ever collide route.	Can packets ever collide in route?.
link parameter based size.	Are link parameters based on size?.
node ever acquire wrong connection id.	Can the node ever acquire the wrong connection id?.
address information changed set-up phase.	Can address information be changed after the set-up phase?.
situation destination can't discovered.	Is there a situation where the destination can't be discovered?.
address information transferred node.	When is the address information not transferred to each node?.
connectionless-oriented transmission require.	What does connectionless-oriented transmission require?.
contained large packet header.	What is contained in a large packet header? .
address information negotiate.	What does the address information negotiate?.
x.25 frame relay require.	WHat do x.25 and Frame Relay both require.
x.25 frame relay used.	What were X.25 and Frame relay used for .
supplanted frame relay x.25.	What supplanted Frame Relay and X.25 .
typical configuration.	What is a typical configuration.
frame relay provide.	What does Frame Relay provide?.
level two connection-orientated operation.	What is level two of the connection-orientated operation? .
"hand shake" communication party.	What is the "hand shake" between communication parties?.
protocol suite.	What is the protocol suite?.
packet switching used 1980s.	Where was the packet switching used in the 1980s? .
frame relay requires handshake.	Frame Relay requires a handshake from what?.
frame relay's lapb provide.	What does Frame Relay's LAPB provide?.
x.25's integrity operation concern.	What does X.25's integrity operations concern?.
frame relay's protocol used uni.	When was Frame Relay's protocols used at UNI?.
x.25 connection-oriented layer two.	How is X.25 connection-oriented at layer two?.
arpnet sita become operational.	WHen did ARPNET and SITA become operational.
2 difference betwen x.25 arpnet cita technology.	2 differences betwen X.25 and ARPNET CITA technologies .
userdatagram protocol gaurentee.	WHat does UserDatagram Protocol gaurentee.
x.25 us type network type.	X.25 uses what type network type .
many different network technology 1973.	How many different network technologies where there before 1973?.
type network sita hln use.	What type of network does SITA HLN not use?.
x.25 simpler.	X.25 had a simpler what?.
x.25 le functionality.	X.25 had less functionality because of what?.
defined difference arpanet sita hln x.25.	What defined the differences between the ARPANET and SITA HLN and X.25?.
introduction x.25 1973, many network technology developed.	After the introduction of X.25 in 1973, how many network technologies had been developed?.
udp, network guarantee.	In UDP, the network guarantees what?.
suite us udp.	What suite uses UDP?.
virtual call system, host responsibility.	In a virtual call system, the hosts have what responsibility?.
apple talk.	What was Apple Talk .
feature apple talk.	WHat were features of Apple Talk .
apple system assign automatically.	What did the Apple system assign automatically .
type system known.	This type of system is known as .
apple inc created 1985.	Apple Inc created what in 1985?.
purpose suite developed 1985.	What was the purpose of the suite developed in 1985? .
appletalk considered plug-n-play.	Why was Appletalk considered plug-n-play? .
created centralized router server.	What created a centralized router or server?.
could apple device utilize suite.	Could only Apple devices utilize this suite? .
appletalk developed 1995.	AppleTalk was developed in 1995 for who?.
non-local area network established appletalk.	How were non-local area networks established with Appletalk?.
inter-network routing kind system.	Inter-network routing was what kind of system?.
protocol popular 1970s 80 apple.	What protocol was popular in the 1970s and 80s for Apple?.
network designed french.	What network was designed by the french .
first network.	What was a first for this network .
possible.	How was this possible .
network influenced later model.	This network influenced  later models of .
alternative arpanet developed.	What alternative to ARPANET was developed? .
arpanet develop first system make host responsible delivery data.	Did ARPANET develop the first system to make hosts responsible for delivery of data?.
concept influenced later arpanet.	What concepts influenced the later ARPANET?.
influenced arpanet.	Who had influenced ARPANET?.
type alternative cyclades give.	What types of alternatives did CYCLADES give?.
developed finnish research network, cyclades packet.	Who developed the Finnish research network, the CYCLADES packet?.
developed 1983.	Why was it developed in 1983?.
first network make host responsible.	It wasn't the first network to make the hosts responsible for what?.
network deliver data.	How did the network deliver the data?.
decnet.	What is  DECnet.
decnet originally.	What did DECnet originally do .
dec originally 3 layer evolved many layer.	DEC originally had 3 layers but evolved into how many layers .
decnet phase 2 become.	What did DECnet phase 2 become .
decnet stand.	DECnet stands for what?.
peer peer.	What is peer to peer?.
sort protocol developed.	What sort of protocols were developed? .
decnet suite include.	What does DECnet suite include?.
late published version utilized.	Late published versions were utilized by who?.
decnet originally released 1982 reason.	DECnet originally released in 1982 for what reason?.
originally built four layers, many layer dec evolve.	Originally built with four layers, how many layers did DEC evolve to have?.
linux became networking powerhouse 1980s reason.	Linux became a networking powerhouse in the 1980s for what reason?.
decnet ii protocol designed.	DECnet II protocols were designed by who?.
decnet phase become.	What did DECnet Phase I become?.
warner sinback.	What was Warner Sinback.
4 sale service center viewed.	The 4 sales and service centers are viewed as .
center profitable.	Were the centers profitable.
warner sinback decide.	What did Warner Sinback decide .
lost money.	Who lost money?.
work completed dartmouth.	What work was completed at Dartmouth? .
world first commercial online service.	What was the worlds first commercial online service?.
warner sinback offer.	What did Warner Sinback offer?.
warner correct.	What was Warner correct about?.
five computer sale service center seen.	These five computer sales and service centers are seen as what?.
sinback worked college time-sharing system.	Sinback worked with what college on a time-sharing system?.
job kemney given ge.	What job was Kemney given at GE?.
merit network formed michigan.	WHy was the Merit network formed in Michigan .
completed triad.	What completed the triad .
set stage merit role nsfnet.	What set the stage for Merits role in NSFNET.
state educational economic development helped.	State educational and economic development where helped by what?.
packet-switched network first demonstrated.	Where was the packet-switched network first demonstrated? .
triad.	What was the triad? .
eventual merit role.	What was eventual Merits role? .
many joined "network".	How many joined the "network"? .
university ann arbor wayne state university, third university complete triad.	After the University of Ann Arbor and Wayne State University, who was the third university to complete the triad?.
michigan network inc. formed michigan's public university.	When was Michigan Network Inc. formed by Michigan's public universities?.
michigan educational research information trio formed.	Why was the Michigan Educational Research Information Trio formed?.
michigan inc. start mid-1980s.	What did Michigan Inc. start in the mid-1980s?.
nsf helped network enhance.	NSF helped the network enhance what?.
telenet.	What was telenet .
founded telnet.	Who founded Telnet .
purpose telnet.	Purpose of Telnet .
telnet used interface technology.	Telnet Used what  Interface technology.
telnet sold.	Telnet was sold to .
telenet licensed founder.	Telenet was licensed under what founder? .
larry robert hope.	What was Larry Roberts hope?.
bbn provided financing.	BBN provided financing for what?.
telenet purchased 1979.	Why was Telenet purchased in 1979? .
at&t purchase technology reason.	AT&T did not purchase the technology for what reason? .
at&t financed project, technology use.	When AT&T financed the project, what technology did they use?.
gte director wanted make arpanet technology public.	What GTE director wanted to make ARPANET technology public?.
bbn monopoly's reaction robert.	What was the BBN monopoly's reaction to Roberts?.
business incorporated 1975.	What business was incorporated in 1975?.
tymnet.	What was Tymnet.
tymnet connect.	What did Tymnet connect .
user tymnet connect.	How did user of Tymnet connect .
business allowed private company.	The business allowed for private companies to do what .
gateway allowed private company.	Gateways allowed private companies to do what .
tymnet worked.	Tymnet worked with what?.
private network connected via gateway reason.	Private networks were connected via gateways for what reason? .
suggested name tymnet.	Who suggested the name of Tymnet? .
dial dedicated async connection connected.	Dial up or dedicated async connections connected who? .
server hosted.	Where were servers hosted? .
international data communication network headquartered san juan, ca.	What international data communications network was headquartered in San Juan, CA?.
public network business allowed government agency.	The public network business allowed government agencies to do what?.
tymnet connected dozen private network.	How was Tymnet connected to dozens of other private networks?.
x.75, ascii, interface used.	How were X.75, ASCII, and other interfaces used?.
tymnet consisted large private network supported.	Tymnet consisted of a large private network that supported who?.
many type x.25 network originally.	How many types of X.25 networks were there originally .
developed datapac.	Who developed DATAPAC.
foreign clone datapac allow.	WHat did foreign clones of DATAPAC allow for .
implemented x.25 interface.	What was implemented with an X.25 interface? .
sold foreign ptts.	What was sold to foreign PTTs?.
dnic allowed host.	DNIC allowed a host to do what? .
deutsce bundespost bought kind interface look like.	The Deutsce Bundespost bought what kind of interface look a likes? .
x.25 network helped.	X.25 networks were helped by what? .
transpac tymnet modified.	How were TRANSPAC and TYMNET modified?.
bell northern research developed transpac joint venture two company.	Bell Northern Research developed TRANSPAC as a joint venture between which two companies?.
northen telecom sell transpac clone.	Who did Northen Telecom sell TRANSPAC clones to?.
telenet transpac implemented.	TELENET and TRANSPAC were implemented with what?.
x.25 x.121 allowed happen.	X.25 and X.121 allowed what to happen?.
austpac.	What was AUSTPAC.
austpac support.	What did AUSTPAC support .
austpac connection made.	How are AUSTPAC connections made .
telecom australia start.	What did Telecom Australia start? .
on-line betting supported network frame.	On-line betting was supported by what network frame?.
type access telstra provide.	What types of access did Telstra provide? .
remote terminal access.	Who had remote terminal access? .
australian tax office used austpac reason.	The Australian Tax Office used AUSTPAC for what reason? .
telstra started early 1980s.	Telstra started what in the early 1980s?.
australian tax office used austpac access remotely.	The Australian Tax Office used AUSTPAC to access what remotely?.
application austpac support.	What applications did AUSTPAC not support?.
australian public x.75 network operated telstra.	What was the Australian public X.75 network operated by Telstra?.
datanet 1.	What was DATANET 1 .
strictly speaking included datanet 1.	Strictly speaking who was included in DATANET 1.
else datnet 1 refer.	Who else did DATNET 1 refer to .
use datanet 1 name correct.	Was the Use of the DATANET 1 name correct .
confusing within kpn.	What was confusing within KPN?.
datanet 1 also referred.	Datanet 1 also referred to what? .
kpn referred datanet 1.	KPN referred to Datanet 1 as .
considered incorrect service given kpn.	What was considered to be incorrect for the services given out by KPN?.
managed datanet 1 kpn.	Who managed Datanet 1 for KPN?.
public kpn service telepad use.	What did the public KPN service Telepad use?.
service used network modified kpn device.	What service used the network and modified KPN devices?.
network operated duct ptt telecom.	What was the network operated by the Duct PTT Telecom?.
though name correct, service managed.	Though the name was correct, all these services were managed by who?.
csnet.	What is CSNET.
purpose csnet.	What was the purpose of CSNET.
funding limitation allowed csnet.	Funding limitations allowed CSNET to be what .
considered major milestone.	What was considered to be a major milestone?.
spread awareness national networking.	Who spread awareness of national networking? .
benefited csnet.	Who benefited from CSNET?.
global internet help funded foundation.	Global internet was help funded by what foundation? .
extended networking benefit helped could connect platform.	Extended networking benefits helped those that could not connect to what platform? .
began operation 1982.	What began operation in 1982?.
purpose nsf.	What was the purpose of NSF?.
academic research institution need nsf's help connecting arpanet.	Why did academic and research institutions need NSF's help connecting to ARPANET?.
arpanet played significant role.	ARPANET played a significant role in what?.
nsf major milestone.	NSF was a major milestone for what?.
internet2.	 what is Internet2.
internet2 partner.	Who did internet2 partner with.
first internet2 network named.	What was the first internet2 network named.
internet2 partner.	Who did internet2 partner with .
ableine retired new platform called.	ableine was retired and the new platform is called .
qwest partnered help create internet2.	Qwest partnered with who to help create Internet2?.
level 3 communication launched.	Level 3 communications launched what? .
internet2 became 2007.	Internet2 became what in 2007? .
abilene referred.	Abilene referred to what? .
higher capacity network formed project.	A higher capacity network was formed by what project? .
first internet2 network created nlr.	What was the first Internet2 Network created with NLR?.
internet2 partner boost capacity 100 gbit/s 1000 gbit/s.	Who did Internet2 partner with to boost their capacity from 100 Gbit/s to 1000 Gbit/s?.
lead qwest consortium.	Who leads the Qwest consortium?.
abilene prime investor project.	Abilene was a prime investor in what project?.
nsfnet.	What is NSFNET.
nsfnet promote.	What did NSFNET promote.
nsfnet eventually provide.	What did NSFNET eventually provide.
advanced networking developed sponsorship.	Advanced networking was developed by what sponsorship? .
promoted research 1985 led.	Promoted research in 1985 led to what? .
original intent nfs funding accomplish task.	Original intent of NFS funding was to accomplish what task? .
public private funding led development.	Public and private funding led to what development? .
prompted advanced research education networking.	What prompted advanced research and education in networking?.
nsf began 1985 promote.	NSF began in 1985 to promote what?.
nsf developed public funding private partnership.	NSF developed into what through public funding and private partnerships?.
constructed supported nsf 1985-1999.	What was constructed to supported NSF in 1985-1999?.
nsfus initially created.	Why was NSFUS initially created?.
vbns stand.	what does vBNS stand for .
vbns.	What did vBNS do .
operated vbsn network.	Who operated the vBSN network .
199 many university connected.	By 199 how many universities were connected .
network install 1999.	What did the network install in 1999.
select location connected.	What were select locations connected to? .
high speed connection maintained monitored.	How were high speed connections maintained and who were they monitored by? .
created cooperative agreement.	Who created the cooperative agreement? .
oc-12c considered substantial engineering feat.	Why was OC-12c considered a substantial engineering feat? .
oc-12c upgraded.	When was OC-12c upgraded? .
nsfbns created.	Why was NSFBNS created?.
nsf engineered operated.	NSF was engineered and operated by who?.
nsf grew connect many university.	NSF grew to connect how many universities?.
nsf installed one first february 1999.	NSF installed one of the first in February 1999?.
many point presence nsfbns 1998.	How many points of presence did NSFBNS have by 1998?.
black death originate.	Where did the black death originate?.
black death make mediterranean europe.	How did the black death make it to the Mediterranean and Europe?.
much european population black death kill.	How much of the European population did the black death kill?.
world's population finally recover black death.	When did the world's population finally recover from the black death?.
long plague stick around.	For how long did the plague stick around?.
year black death originate central asia.	In what year did the Black Death originate in Central Asia?.
black death travel silk road.	How did the Black Death travel down the Silk Road?.
percentage people died black death central asia.	What percentage of people died of the Black Death in Central Asia?.
percentage people died crimea black death.	What percentage of people died in Crimea of the Black Death?.
year black death reach mediterranean.	In what year did the Black Death reach the Mediterranean?.
mean disease enzootic.	What does it mean for a disease to be enzootic?.
old gravestone reference plague.	How old are the gravestones that reference the plague?.
scientist think plague originated.	Where do scientists think all of the plagues originated from?.
chinese famine begin.	When did the Chinese famine begin?.
many epidemic china kill.	How many did this epidemic in China kill?.
year plague disease spread central asia.	In what year did plague disease spread to Central Asia?.
year mongol conquest china begin.	In what year did the Mongol conquest of China begin?.
many people lived china 1300s.	How many people lived in China in the 1300s?.
country constantinople.	In what country is Constantinople?.
term disease commonly present.	What is the term for a disease that is not commonly present?.
introduced plague europe.	Who introduced plague to Europe?.
army siege belong.	Who did the army siege belong to?.
mongol army throw catapult.	What did the Mongol army throw in their catapults?.
genoese trader bring plague.	Where did the genoese traders bring the plague?.
contributed severity plague.	What contributed to the severity of the plague?.
year jani beg become leader mongol army.	In what year did Jani Beg become leader of the Mongol army?.
year kaffa founded.	In what year was Kaffa founded?.
else besides genoa traded kaffa.	Who else besides Genoa traded with Kaffa?.
city sicily genoese trader flee.	To what city in Sicily did the Genoese traders flee to?.
who's infected corpse one one catapulted wall kaffa mongol army.	Who's infected corpse was one of the ones catapulted over the walls of Kaffa by the Mongol army?.
direction disease first move.	Which direction did the disease first move in?.
country last receive disease.	Which country was the last to receive the disease?.
type european group able avoid plague.	What types of European groups were able to avoid the plague?.
disease spreading 1348 1350.	Where was the disease spreading between 1348 and 1350?.
plague-ridden ship land norway.	When did a plague-ridden ship land in Norway?.
month year black death spread france.	In what month and year did the Black Death spread into France?.
country's ship landed oskoy.	What country's ship landed at Oskoy?.
year black death spread iceland.	In what year did the Black Death spread into Iceland?.
kingdom poland trade.	Who did the Kingdom of Poland trade with?.
one country isolated alpine village.	What was one of the countries that had isolated alpine villages?.
effect plague middle east.	What effect did the plague have on the Middle East?.
plague reached alexandria.	When had the plague reached Alexandria?.
plague infiltrate alexandria.	How did the plague infiltrate Alexandria?.
resident antioch flee.	Where did the residents of Antioch flee to?.
year plague begin middle east.	In what year did the plague begin in the Middle East?.
resident antioch flee due plague.	Where did the residents of Antioch flee to due to the plague?.
year infection spread people asia minor.	In what years did the infection spread to the people of Asia Minor?.
one city port black sea.	What was one of the cities that had a port on the Black Sea?.
country damascus.	In what country was Damascus?.
claimed name black death first appeared 1631.	Who claimed that the name Black Death first appeared in 1631?.
latin name black death.	What is the Latin name for Black Death?.
allegedly coined name black death.	Who allegedly coined the name Black Death?.
name black death officially take root england.	When did the name black death officially take root in England?.
plague spread scandinavia germany first.	Did the plague spread in Scandinavia or Germany first?.
year name "black death" spread germany.	In what year did the name "black death" spread into Germany?.
year black death spread england.	In what year did the Black Death spread into England?.
year j.i. pontanus born.	In what year was J.I. Pontanus born?.
scandinavia started calling plague black death year.	Scandinavia started calling the plague the Black Death in what year?.
what's latin name germany.	What's the Latin name for Germany?.
black death originally blamed.	What was the black death originally blamed on?.
medical report written.	Who was the medical report written for?.
newer, widely accepted theory behind spread plague.	What is the newer, more widely accepted theory behind the spread of the plague?.
bad air theory officially known.	What is the bad air theory officially known as?.
city king france live.	In what city did the king of France live?.
actually caused plague.	What actually caused the plague?.
year medical faculty paris established.	In what year was the medical faculty in Paris established?.
year medical knowledge begin stagnate middle age.	In what year did medical knowledge begin to stagnate during the Middle Ages?.
considered responsible black death well epidemic southern china.	What was considered responsible for the black death as well as the epidemic in southern China?.
investigation plague pathogen begin.	Where and when did the investigation of the plague pathogen begin?.
yersinia pestis named.	Who was yersinia pestis named for?.
paul-louis simond establish 1898.	What did Paul-Louis Simond establish in 1898?.
bubonic plague mechanism reliant.	What was the bubonic plague mechanism reliant on?.
black death spread india.	When did the Black Death spread into India?.
year alexandre yersin discover yersinia pestis.	In what year did Alexandre Yersin discover the Yersinia pestis?.
nationality paul-louis simond.	What nationality was Paul-Louis Simond?.
besides alexandre yersin another scientist visited hong kong 1894.	Besides Alexandre Yersin who was another scientist that visited Hong Kong in 1894?.
named pathogen yersinia pestis.	Who named the pathogen Yersinia pestis?.
wrote great pestilence 1893.	Who wrote about the great pestilence in 1893?.
gasquet think plague.	What did Gasquet think the plague was?.
second edition gasquet's book come.	When did the second edition of Gasquet's book come out?.
gasquet's book blame plague.	What did Gasquet's book blame the plague on?.
another plague thought spread way.	What is another plague thought to have spread the same way?.
francis aidan gasquet born.	When was Francis Aidan Gasquet born?.
bubonic plague begin europe.	When did the bubonic plague begin in Europe?.
justinian plague epidemic called.	What was the Justinian plague epidemic called?.
year eastern roman empire established.	In what year was the Eastern Roman Empire established?.
mortality rate modern bubonic plague.	What is the mortality rate of the modern bubonic plague?.
high plague fever run.	How high do plague fevers run?.
percent untreated victim plague die within 8 day.	What percent of untreated victims of the plague die within 8 days?.
mortality rate pneumonic plague.	What is the mortality rate of pneumonic plague?.
skin-related symptom appears pneumonic plague.	What skin-related symptom appears from the pneumonic plague?.
color sputum suffering septicemic plague sufferer.	What color is the sputum of those suffering from septicemic plague sufferers?.
temperature fever one suffering pneumonic plague.	What temperature fever does one have suffering from pneumonic plague?.
high fever someone suffering septicemic plague.	How high of a fever does someone suffering from septicemic plague have?.
fast septicemic kill people left untreated.	How fast does septicemic kill most people left untreated?.
fast pneumonic plague usually kill people left untreated.	How fast does pneumonic plague usually kill most people when left untreated?.
plo pathogen paper come.	When did the Plos Pathogens paper come out?.
plo pathogen paper.	What was the Plos Pathogens paper about?.
scientist ass dna/rna yersinia pestis.	How did scientists assess the DNA/RNA of yersinia pestis? .
scientist find y. pestis sample.	Where did scientists find their Y. pestis sample? .
plo pathogen paper claim.	What does the plos pathogen paper claim?.
year plo pathogen first published.	In what year was PloS Pathogens first published?.
country plo pathogen headquartered.	In what country is PloS Pathogens headquartered?.
year polymerase chain reaction first used researcher.	In what year were Polymerase Chain Reactions first used by researchers?.
scientific journal france published prior analysis black death.	What scientific journal in France published a prior analysis of the Black Death?.
month drancourt raoult's research published 1998.	In what month was Drancourt and Raoult's research published in 1998?.
clade.	What are clades?.
strain y. pestis found mass graf.	What strains of y. pestis were found in the mass graves?.
strain y. pestis suggest abut plague.	What do the strains of y. pestis suggest abut the plague?.
first variant y. pestis enter europe.	How and when did the first variant of y. pestis enter Europe?.
y. pestis reach england.	When did the y. pestis reach England?.
year marseille founded.	In what year was Marseille founded?.
year second wave plague hit netherlands.	In what year did the second wave of the plague hit the Netherlands?.
one hanseatic city.	What was one of the Hanseatic cities?.
month 1349 second wave plague reach england.	In what month in 1349 did the second wave of the plague reach England?.
country y. p. orientalis genome originate.	In what country did the Y. p. orientalis genome originate?.
current status haensch study.	What is the current status of the Haensch study?.
burial site used testing located.	Where was the burial site used for testing located?.
thought happened y. pestis caused black death.	What is thought to have happened to the y. pestis that caused the black death?.
study sequenced genome published.	When was the study on sequenced Y genomes published?.
year haensch study released.	In what year was the Haensch study released?.
wrote study published nature october 2011.	Who wrote the study published in Nature in October 2011?.
schuenemann's first name.	What was Schuenemann's first name?.
year black death victim east smithfield discovered.	In what year were the Black Death victims in East Smithfield discovered?.
challenged plague theory first.	Who challenged the plague theory first?.
shrewsbury note plague.	What did Shrewsbury note about the plague?.
shrewsbury's conclusion.	What was Shrewsbury's conclusion?.
graham twigg publish 1984.	What did Graham Twigg publish in 1984?.
discussed twigg's study 2002.	Who discussed Twigg's study in 2002?.
first came bubonic plague theory.	Who first came up with the bubonic plague theory?.
samuel k. cohn jr.'s career.	What is Samuel K. Cohn Jr.'s career?.
type scientist david herlihy.	What type of scientist is David Herlihy?.
came term black death.	Who came up with the term Black Death?.
year samuel k. cohn, jr. read graham twigg's major work.	In what year did Samuel K. Cohn, Jr.  read Graham Twigg's major work?.
important identifying plague symptom.	What is as important as identifying plague symptoms?.
researcher struggling identify history plague.	Why are researchers struggling to identify the history of the plague?.
much estimation population plague vary.	How much do estimations of the population during the plague vary?.
population estimate extrapolated.	Where can population estimates be extrapolated from?.
year census taken.	During which years was no census taken?.
year plague begin england.	In what year did the plague begin in England?.
year domesday book written.	In what year was the Domesday Book written?.
domesday book.	What is the Domesday Book about?.
year clergy enter england.	In what year did the clergy enter England?.
might rat responsible plague.	Why might rats not be responsible for the plague?.
significant transfer disease flea.	How significant was the transfer of disease through fleas?.
might temperature affect theory plague spreading.	Why  might the temperature affect the theory of plague spreading?.
bubonic plague spread faster slower modern bubonic plague.	Was the bubonic plague spread faster or slower than modern bubonic plague?.
many year could separate outbreak black death.	How many years could separate outbreaks of the black death?.
century modern bubonic plague strike europe.	In what century did modern bubonic plague strike Europe?.
weather southern europe survivable flea.	Is the weather of southern Europe survivable for fleas?.
black death spread europe.	How was the Black Death spread in Europe?.
many year take black death spread throughout europe.	How many years did it take for the Black Death to spread throughout Europe?.
long take travel across europe using primitive transport system.	How long did it take to travel across Europe using primitive transport systems?.
graham twigg propose spread disease.	What does Graham Twigg propose about the spread of disease?.
norman cantor's theory plague.	What was Norman Cantor's theory about the plague?.
disease many scientist believe contributed plague pandemic.	Which diseases do many scientists believe contributed to plague pandemic?.
septicemia.	What is septicemia? .
many body public health england exhume.	How many bodies did Public Health England exhume? .
twigg's first name.	What was Twigg's first name?.
type scientist norman cantor.	What type of scientist is Norman Cantor?.
one scientist public health england 2014.	Who was one of the scientists for Public Health England in 2014?.
year scott duncan's research published.	In what year was Scott and Duncan's research published?.
discovered y. pestis.	Who discovered Y. pestis?.
much population middle east died plague.	How much of the population in the Middle East died of the plague?.
much paris' population killed plague.	How much of Paris' population was killed by the plague?.
isolated, spaced graf plague victim indicate.	What do isolated, spaced out graves of plague victims indicate?.
many people would die plague largely populated city.	How many people would die of plague in largely populated cities?.
area least vulnerable disease.	Which areas were least vulnerable to disease?.
many people lived egypt start black death.	How many people lived in Egypt at the start of the Black Death?.
country hamburg.	In what country is Hamburg?.
plague originate.	Where did the plague originate?.
percentage monk priest died black death.	What percentage of monks and priests died from the Black Death?.
percentage people isolated area europe died black death.	What percentage of people in isolated areas of Europe died from the Black Death?.
plague return europe.	When did the plague return to Europe?.
biraben say plague europe.	What did Biraben say about the plague in Europe?.
many french people lost plague 1628-31.	How many French people were lost to plague between 1628-31?.
biraben's first name.	What is Biraben's first name?.
first pandemic end.	When did the First Pandemic end?.
geoffrey parker.	Where is Geoffrey Parker from?.
biraben.	Where is Biraben from?.
many people died black death northern africa.	How many people died from the Black Death in Northern  Africa?.
historian absence census figure.	What did historians do in the absence of census figures?.
black death technically subside.	When did the black death technically subside?.
many people died outbreak 1471.	How many people died in the outbreak of 1471?.
great plague london.	When was the great plague of London?.
percentage population london died 1589 breakout black death.	What percentage of the population of London died during the 1589 breakout of the Black Death?.
percentage people died great plague london 1665.	What percentage of people died during the Great Plague of London in 1665?.
year tudor era begin england.	In what year did the Tudor era begin in England?.
population europe 1665.	What was the population of Europe in 1665?.
percentage population died 1625 outbreak black death.	What percentage of the population died in the 1625 outbreak of the Black Death?.
many people died plague paris 1466.	How many people died of plague in Paris in 1466?.
black plague ravaged europe three year followed country.	The black plague ravaged Europe for three years followed by what country?.
many time plague occur venice.	How many times did plague occur in Venice?.
outbreak associated troop thirty year war.	Which outbreak was associated with troops in the thirty years war?.
last plague outbreak.	When was the last plague outbreak?.
percentage population paris died plague 1466.	What percentage of the population of Paris died of the plague in 1466?.
many people lived oslo start plague outbreak 1654.	How many people lived in Oslo at the start of the plague outbreak in 1654?.
percentage venice resident died plague 1361.	What percentage of Venice residents died of the plague in 1361?.
italy fight thirty year war.	Who did Italy fight during the Thirty Years War?.
many people lived norway 1348.	How many people lived in Norway in 1348?.
many killed plague italy 17th century.	How many were killed by plague in Italy in the 17th century?.
many killed plague naples 1656.	How many were killed by plague in Naples in 1656?.
many resident seville died plague 1649.	How many residents of Seville died of plague in 1649?.
fought great northern war.	Who fought in the great Northern war?.
europe's last major epidemic.	When was Europe's last major epidemic?.
country seville located.	In what country is Seville located?.
one ally russia great northern war.	What was one of the allies of Russia in the Great Northern War?.
percentage population spain died plague 17th century.	What percentage of the population of Spain died of the plague in the 17th century?.
population stockholm.	What was the population of Stockholm?.
country marseille.	In what country is Marseille?.
year plague present islamic country.	During which years was the plague present in Islamic countries?.
many people lost algiers 1620-21.	How many people were lost in Algiers during 1620-21?.
long plague last ottoman empire.	How long did plague last in the Ottoman empire?.
many people, most, died plague baghdad.	How many people, at most, have died of plague in Baghdad? .
year resident baghdad first become affected plague.	In what year did the residents of Baghdad first become affected by the plague?.
many people lived constantinople 1701.	How many people lived in Constantinople in 1701?.
many people died plague ottoman society 19th century.	How many people died of the plague in Ottoman society in the 19th century?.
many time plague visit baghdad.	How many times did the plague visit Baghdad?.
many time plague visit ottoman society second quarter 19th century.	How many times did the plague visit Ottoman society before the second quarter of the 19th century?.
igneous rock rock crystallizes.	An igneous rock is a rock that crystallizes from what?.
sedimentary rock turned three type rock.	Sedimentary rock can be turned into which of the three types of rock?.
three type rock re-melted formed.	When the three types of rock are re-melted what is formed? .
three major type rock.	What are the three major types of rock? .
change mineral content rock.	What changes the mineral content of a rock?.
three type crystallization.	What are three types of crystallization?.
important concept crystallization.	What is an important concept in crystallization?.
kind mineral crystallizes erosion.	What kind of mineral crystallizes from erosion?.
change way mineral deposited.	What changes the way a mineral is deposited?.
happens three type mineral re-deposited change characteristic.	What happens when three types of minerals are re-deposited and change their characteristics?.
illustrates relationship rock crystal.	What illustrates the relationships between rock and crystal?.
type rock cannot re-melted.	Which type of rock cannot be re-melted?.
rock lithified.	How is a rock lithified?.
heat prevent changing crystallization process.	What does heat prevent from changing in the crystallization process?.
give sedimentary rock characteristic fabric.	What gives sedimentary rock its characteristic fabric?.
important discovery led understanding earth's lithosphere separated tectonic plate.	What was the most important discovery that led to the understanding that Earth's lithosphere is separated into tectonic plates?.
part earth included lithosphere.	Which parts of the Earth are included in the lithosphere? .
another word earth's upper mantle.	What is another word for the Earth's upper mantle?.
plate tectonics seen intimate coupling rigid plate surface earth.	Plate tectonics can be seen as the intimate coupling between rigid plates on the surface of the Earth and what? .
decade seafloor spreading discovered.	In what decade was seafloor spreading discovered? .
important discovery thermal boundary made.	When was the most important discovery about thermal boundaries made?.
another word seafloor spreading.	What is another word for seafloor spreading?.
direction sea current seafloor spreading always move.	What direction do sea currents and seafloor spreading always move in?.
involved sea current coupling.	What is involved in sea current coupling?.
another term sea current.	What is another term for sea currents?.
different tectonic plate called.	What are the different tectonic plates called?.
oceanic plate mantle convection current move opposite direction.	Why do oceanic plates and mantle convection currents move in opposite directions?.
lower thermal boundary layer called.	What is the lower thermal boundary layer called?.
lithosphere discovered.	When was the lithosphere discovered?.
lithosphere asthenosphere called coupled together.	What are the lithosphere and asthenosphere called when coupled together?.
area called two plate move apart.	What is the area called where two plates move apart?.
area called one plate subducts another.	What is the area called where one plate subducts under another?.
type fault boundary defined widespread powerful earthquakes, state california.	What type of fault boundary is defined by having widespread powerful earthquakes, as in the state of California?.
whose theory theory continental drift.	Whose theory was the theory of continental drift?.
lithosphere move mantle n theory plate tectonics.	The lithosphere moves over which mantle n the theory of plate tectonics?.
theory regarding san andreas fault.	What did the theory regarding the San Andreas fault do?.
mid ocean ridge high region geologic feature called.	What were mid ocean ridges and high regions of geologic features called?.
happened result hydrothermal vent underwater volcano transform boundary.	What happened as a result of hydrothermal vents and underwater volcanoes that are transform boundaries?.
keep theory transform boundary going.	What keeps the theory of transform boundaries going?.
discovered plate tectonics.	Who discovered plate tectonics?.
wegener's theory important understanding lithosphere.	Why was Wegener's theory important for understanding the lithosphere?.
ocean volcano arc located.	Where in the ocean are volcano arcs located?.
mechanism plate tectonics.	What is the mechanism for plate tectonics?.
happens one plate touch another.	What happens when one plate touches another?.
type wave seismologist use image interior earth.	What types of waves do seismologists use to image the interior of the Earth?.
layered model earth, outermost layer.	In the layered model of the Earth, the outermost layer is what? .
layered model earth, mantle two layer it..	In the layered model of the Earth, the mantle has two layers below it. What are they? .
layered model earth seismic discontinuity layer.	In the layered model of the Earth there are seismic discontinuities in which layer? .
recently detailed model earth developed. seismologist able create using image interior earth.	Recently a more detailed model of the Earth was developed. Seismologists were able to create this using images of what from the interior of the Earth? .
seismologist use map earth's crust.	What do seismologists use to map the Earth's crust?.
able see dense solid core earth.	What was not able to see through the dense solid core of the Earth?.
many kilometer shear wave separated measuring crust.	By how many kilometers are shear waves separated when measuring the crust?.
ct scan lead doctor patient.	What have CT scans lead to for doctors and their patients?.
layered earth model, inner core separated.	In the layered Earth model, what is the inner core separated by?.
outer core called.	What is the outer core called?.
size mantle.	What is the size of the mantle?.
quickly wave speed inside earth move.	How quickly to wave speeds inside the earth move?.
second timeline needed.	Why is the second timeline needed? .
timeline expanded fourth scale.	Which timeline is further expanded in the fourth scale?.
name latest epoch.	What is the name of the latest epoch?.
pleistocene epoch take place period.	The Pleistocene epoch takes place during which period?.
second timeline compress.	What does the second timeline compress?.
first timeline added timeline expand.	What has the first timeline added to the timeline to expand it?.
recent era expanded first scale.	Why is the most recent era expanded in the first scale?.
holocene expanded since short short epoch.	Where is the Holocene further expanded since it is very short with short epochs?.
holocene shown clearly first timeline.	Why is the Holocene not shown clearly on the first timeline?.
largest eon.	What is the largest eon?.
timeline accurate.	Which timeline is the most accurate?.
many epoch.	How many epochs are there?.
fourth scale compress.	What does the fourth scale compress?.
name epoch expanded second scale.	What is the name of the epoch expanded in the second scale?.
principle relates formation fault age sequence cut.	What principle relates to the formation of faults and the age of the sequences through which they cut? .
rock formation found top fault cut, must older younger fault.	When rock formations are found on top of a fault that have not been cut, then they must be older or younger than the fault?.
finding help determine fault normal fault thrust fault.	Finding what helps to determine if a fault is a normal fault or a thrust fault? .
rock top fault cut always older younger fault.	Rocks on top of a fault that are cut are always older or younger than the fault itself?.
principle help find difference normal thrust fault.	What principle helps find the difference between a normal or thrust fault?.
key bed younger.	What are key beds younger than?.
need found find rock related.	What needs to be found to find out if rocks are related?.
age key bed related fault cut.	What is the age of key beds if they are related to a fault and not cut?.
cutting key bed help older rock form.	What does cutting a key bed help an older rock form?.
key bed.	What is the key bed?.
principle help define key bed.	What principle helps define the key bed?.
cut rock top fault younger fault.	Why are cut rocks on top of a fault younger than the fault?.
thrust fault.	What is a thrust fault?.
say fault penetrates top rock lower formation.	What can you say about a fault that penetrates the top rocks but not the lower formations?.
foreign bodies, older rock themselves, occur igneous rock.	What foreign bodies, which are older than the rocks themselves, occur igneous rocks?.
xenolith picked deposited matrix igneous rock.	Xenoliths are picked up by what and deposited into the matrix of igneous rocks? .
another word inclusion sedimentary rock.	What is another word for inclusions in sedimentary rocks? .
principle state sedimentary rocks, inclusion must older formation contains.	What is the principle that states that with sedimentary rocks, inclusions must be older than the formation that contains them?.
something often torn included sedimentary rock.	What is something that is often torn up and included in sedimentary rock?.
matrix component show magma flow.	What do matrix components show about how magma flows?.
gravel found xenolith.	Where is the gravel from that is found in xenoliths?.
happens gravel found xenolith.	What happens to the gravel found in xenoliths?.
another word xenolith.	What is another word for xenoliths?.
old lava flow cool.	How old is a lava flow after it cools?.
igneous rock use gravel.	Why do igneous rocks use gravel?.
xenolith made.	What are xenoliths made out of?.
say formation must older inclusion inside.	What says that formations must be older than the inclusions inside them?.
matrix.	What is the matrix?.
another name formation.	What is another name a formation? .
principle based appearance fossil sedimentary rock.	Which principle is based on the appearance of fossils in sedimentary rocks?.
whose principle principle faunal succession built upon.	Whose principles were the principle of faunal succession built upon?.
fact fossil may found globally time cause principle become.	The fact that not all fossils may be found globally at the same time causes the principle to become what?.
presence absence used determine relative age formation found.	The presence or absence of what can be used to determine the relative age of the formations in which they are found? .
principle faunal succession developed 100 year whose theory evolution.	The principle of faunal succession was developed 100 years before whose theory of evolution?.
sedimentary rock found time.	Where can sedimentary rock not be found at the same time?.
theory evolution based.	What is the theory of evolution based on?.
change habitat used provide formation.	What can changes in habitat be used to provide about formations?.
much time charles darwin, william smith develop principle succession.	How much time after Charles Darwin, did William Smith develop the principles of succession?.
one uncertainty theory evolution make complex.	What is one uncertainty about the theory of evolution that makes it complex?.
charles darwin's theory evolution published.	When was Charles Darwin's theory of evolution published?.
wrote principle faunal succession.	Who wrote the principles of faunal succession?.
theory evolution complex.	Why is the theory of evolution so complex?.
easy use organism's absence show age formation.	Why is it easy to use an organism's absence to show the age of a formation?.
principle succession dependent thought.	The principles of succession are dependent on what thought?.
ability use radioactive isotope date rock formation developed.	When was the ability to use radioactive isotopes to date rock formations developed?.
type correlation used previously help date rock formation.	What type of correlation was used previously to help date rock formations?.
possible convert old relative age type age using isotopic dating.	It is now possible to convert old relative ages into what type of ages using isotopic dating?.
previous isotopic dating section rock dated using fossil stratigraphic correlation relative.	Previous to isotopic dating sections of rocks had to be dated using fossils and stratigraphic correlation relative to what? .
dating rocks, absolute isotopic date applied.	When dating rocks, what is the absolute isotopic date applied to?.
advancement using fossil help geological science early 20th century.	How did the advancement of using fossils help geological science in the early 20th century?.
using fossil help change scientist.	What did using fossils help change for scientists?.
ability use fossil date isotope formation developed.	When was the ability to use fossils to date isotope formations developed?.
become possible dating isotope using fossil.	What has it now become possible to do when dating isotopes while using fossils?.
scientist apply relative rock section find isotope.	What can scientists apply relative rock sections to to find isotopes?.
geologist stop using isotope.	When did geologists stop using isotopes?.
geologist beginning comparing fossil.	When did geologists beginning comparing fossils to each other?.
stratigraphic correlation replace.	What did stratigraphic correlation replace?.
absolute age converted.	Absolute ages had to be converted into what?.
fossil sequence applied.	What are fossil sequences applied to?.
technique used determine paleotopography.	What techniques can be used to determine paleotopography?.
point different radiometric isotope stop diffusing crystal lattice called.	The point at which different radiometric isotopes stop diffusing into and out of the crystal lattice is called what?.
type ratio used geochronologic thermochronologic study.	What type of ratios are used in geochronologic and thermochronologic studies?.
find absolute age sedimentary rock unit contain radioactive isotope.	How can you find the absolute age of sedimentary rock units which do not contain radioactive isotopes?.
crystal lattice measured.	What are crystal lattices measured in?.
one thing measuring crystal lattice show ash layer.	What is one thing measuring in crystal lattices shows in ash layers?.
one thing ash layer used determine crystal lattice.	What is one thing ash layers can be used to determine in a crystal lattice?.
pluton emplacement give stratigraphic sequence measured mineral.	What does pluton emplacement give after a stratigraphic sequence is measured in minerals?.
study use pluton emplacement.	What studies use pluton emplacement?.
crystal lattice made.	What is the crystal lattice made out of?.
paleotopography study.	What does paleotopography study?.
point radiometric isotope begin diffusing called.	What is the point that radiometric isotopes begin diffusing called?.
cannot used find age pluton emplacement.	What cannot be used to find the age of pluton emplacement?.
determines temperature profile outside crust.	What determines the temperature profile outside of the crust?.
rock unit become thicker shorten placed type compression..	Rock units become thicker and shorten when placed under this type of compression. .
thrust fault form.	Where do thrust faults form?.
rock fold deep earth fold one two ways, buckle upwards creates.	When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles upwards it creates what? .
rock fold deep earth fold one two ways, buckle downwards creates.	When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles downwards it creates what? .
top rock unit within fold remain pointing upwards, called.	If the tops of the rock units within the folds remain pointing upwards, they are called what? .
happens syncline horizontally compressed.	What happens when syncline is horizontally compressed?.
two way mud change volume.	What are two ways that mud doesn't change in volume?.
happens younger rock deeper.	What happens because younger rock is deeper?.
happens deeper earth brittle deformation occurrs.	What happens deeper in the Earth where brittle deformation occurrs?.
two type fault happen shallow crust.	What are two types of faults that happen in the shallow crust?.
kind unit tends change volume.	What kind of unit tends to change its volume?.
principle state rock deeper layer tend younger.	What principle states that rocks deeper in the layer tend to be younger?.
behaviour cause rock deeper earth fault instead folding.	What behaviour causes rocks deeper in the earth to fault instead of folding?.
happens rock unit vertical pressure.	What happens to rock units under vertical pressure?.
buckle facing downwards fault called.	What are buckles facing downwards in a fault called?.
cause rock unit whole become longer thinner..	This causes the rock unit as a whole to become longer and thinner. .
stretched rock pinch lens known word.	Stretched rocks that pinch into lenses are known by what word? .
entire sedimentary sequence grand canyon seen le length meter.	Where can the entire sedimentary sequence of the Grand Canyon be seen in less than the length of a meter?.
rock depth ductilely stretched also often.	Rocks that are a depth where they are ductilely stretched are also often what?.
cause rock extension.	What causes rock extension?.
another word thinning rock french.	What is another word for thinning rocks in French?.
lower rock grand canyon seen.	Where can lower rocks of the Grand Canyon be seen?.
happens sediment layer also thinning.	What happens to sediment layers that are also thinning?.
extension sediment le meter long.	What does extension do to sediment that is less than a meter long?.
sediment make rock fall.	How does sediment make rock fall?.
place younger unit older unit.	What places younger units above older units?.
long boudin.	How long is a boudin?.
long maria fold.	How long is the Maria Fold?.
extension occur.	Where does extension occur?.
stretched sequence grand canyon named.	What was the stretched sequence in the Grand Canyon named?.
another word long, planar igneous intrusion.	What is another word for long, planar igneous intrusions?.
dike form.	Where do dikes form?.
type gradient formed faulting deformational process.	What type of gradients are formed by faulting and other deformational processes?.
activity maintains topographic gradient.	What activity maintains topographic gradients?.
event often associated volcanism igneous activity.	What events are often associated with volcanism and igneous activity?.
two way lava tube added deformation.	What are two ways lava tubes are added during deformation?.
process lava tube expanded.	During what process are lava tubes expanded?.
two type activity associated canadian shield.	What two types of activity are associated with the Canadian shield?.
motion along dike swarm maintain.	What does motion along dike swarms maintain?.
continuous motion along dike swarm create sediment deposited.	What does continuous motion along dike swarms create for sediment to be deposited?.
cause hillslopes channel erode.	What causes hillslopes and channels to erode?.
creation topographic gradient cause.	The creation of topographic gradients causes what?.
cause topographic gradient collapse.	What causes the topographic gradients to collapse?.
another name deformational event.	What is another name for a deformational event?.
another name dike swarm.	What is another name for a dike swarm?.
hawaiian island made almost entirely.	The Hawaiian Islands are made up almost entirely of what?.
oldest known rock world.	What is the oldest known rock in the world?.
type rock found grand canyon.	What type of rock is found at the Grand Canyon?.
rock grand canyon place since.	The rocks at the Grand Canyon have been in place since when?.
oldest known rock world located.	Where is the oldest known rock in the world located?.
hawaii made existed since cambrian time.	What is Hawaii made of that has existed since Cambrian time?.
happened sedimentary, volcanic intrusive rock grand canyon.	What has happened to sedimentary, volcanic and intrusive rock in the Grand Canyon?.
happened rock grand canyon oldest rock world.	What has happened to the the rock in the Grand Canyon that is the oldest rock in the world?.
hard find origin grand canyon rock unless analyzed lab.	What is hard to find about the origin of Grand Canyon rock unless analyzed in a lab?.
area northwestern canada almost-undeformed stack sedimentary rock.	What area in northwestern Canada has almost-undeformed stacks of sedimentary rock?.
youngest rock metamorphosize.	What is the youngest rock to metamorphosize?.
long intrusive rock southwestern u around.	How long have the intrusive rocks in the southwestern US been around?.
grand canyon example.	What is the Grand Canyon not an example of?.
complex layering hawaiian island.	What is complex about the layering of the Hawaiian islands?.
formed undeformed unit deposited.	What was formed after the undeformed units were deposited?.
petrology.	What is petrology?.
stratigraphy.	What is stratigraphy?.
structural geology.	What is structural geology?.
modern formation geologist study.	 What modern formations do geologists study?.
scientist use determine process river movement.	What do scientists use to determine the process of river movement?.
another word study past current life.	What is another word for the study of past and current life?.
method study position glacier subsurface.	What method studies the positions of glaciers and their subsurface?.
sedimentary layer used investigate.	What are sedimentary layers used to investigate?.
biogeochemical pathway used decipher.	What are biogeochemical pathways used to decipher?.
geologist use study process outside earth.	What do Geologists use to study processes outside of the earth?.
used non-typical investigation.	What are used in non-typical investigations?.
biogeochemical pathway.	What are biogeochemical pathways?.
geologist use investigate surface.	What do geologists use to investigate the surface?.
ancient property geologist study.	What ancient property do geologists study?.
petrologists use electron microprobes laboratory.	What do petrologists use electron microprobes in the laboratory for?.
property analyzed conoscopic lens petrologists.	What properties are analyzed with a conoscopic lens by petrologists? .
stable radioactive isotope study provide insight.	Stable and radioactive isotope studies provide insight into what?.
petrologists identify rock sample field else.	Petrologists identify rock samples in the field and where else? .
type microscope used petrologists.	What type of microscope is used by petrologists?.
cross-polarized light identified petrologists.	Where is cross-polarized light identified by petrologists?.
two method identifying plane-polarized light lab.	What are two methods for identifying plane-polarized light in the lab?.
equipment used identify individual crystal.	What equipment is used to identify individual crystals?.
property crystal.	What properties are there in crystals?.
used view property crystal.	What is used to view the properties of crystals?.
unstable isotope study indicate.	What do unstable isotope studies indicate?.
optical microscopy identify individual location.	What does optical microscopy identify about individual locations?.
kind rock sample analyzed electron microprobe.	What kind of rock samples are analyzed by an electron microprobe?.
method petrologists use examine rock field.	What methods do petrologists use to examine rocks out in the field?.
lens used identify chemical composition.	What lens is used to identify chemical composition?.
else petrologists understand pressure different mineral phase appear.	How else can petrologists understand the pressures at which different mineral phases appear?.
else petrologists understand temperature different mineral phase appear.	How else can petrologists understand the temperature at which different mineral phases appear?.
data physical experiment extrapolated field understand process.	Data from physical experiments can be extrapolated to the field to understand what processes? .
petrologists use understand magma chamber crystallization.	What do petrologists use to understand magma chamber crystallization?.
experiment used understand magma flow.	What experiments are used to understand how magma flows?.
flow magma change.	How does the flow of magma change?.
else magma flow used understand.	What else can magma flows be used to understand?.
experiment used explain beside magma crystallization.	What can experiments be used to explain beside magma crystallization?.
magma chamber evolution explain.	What does the magma chamber evolution explain?.
process occur earth.	What processes occur above the earth?.
physical experiment explain fluid inclusion data.	How do physical experiments explain fluid inclusion data?.
research regarding metamorphic process help explain pressure.	Research regarding metamorphic processes helps explain what about pressure?.
type geologist give information strain within crystalline structure rock.	What type of geologists give information about strain within the crystalline structure of the rocks?.
structural geologist observe fabric within rock.	How do structural geologists observe the fabric within the rocks?.
order better understand orientation fault folds, structural geologist measurement geological structure.	In order to better understand the orientations of faults and folds, structural geologists do what with measurements of geological structures?.
kind experiment rock deformation structural geologist perform.	What kind of experiments of rock deformation do structural geologists perform?.
setting structural geologist reconstruct crystalline structure rock.	In what setting do structural geologists reconstruct the crystalline structure of rocks?.
experiment used reconstruct rock fabric.	What experiments are used to reconstruct rock fabric? .
geologist plot crystal microscope.	Why do geologists plot crystals under a microscope?.
information history rock deformation give crystal structure.	What information does history of rock deformation give about crystal structure?.
structural geologist measurement fabric crystal.	What do structural geologists do with measurements of fabric in crystals?.
orientation thin section tell geologist.	What does the orientation of the thin sections tell geologists?.
geologist identify measurement geological structure.	How do geologists identify the measurements of a geological structure?.
deformation rock tell geologist.	What does the deformation of a rock tell geologists?.
experiment performed large setting cannot small setting.	What experiment can be performed on large settings that cannot be on small settings?.
instrument used perform analogy numerical experiment.	What instrument is used to perform analogy and numerical experiments?.
zone mountain built along convergent tectonic plate boundary called.	Zones in which mountains are built along convergent tectonic plate boundaries are called what?.
among well known experiment structural geology.	What are among the most well known experiments in structural geology? .
horizontal layer pulled along surface back stop analog version orogenic wedge experiment.	Horizontal layers of what are pulled along a surface into a back stop in analog versions of orogenic wedge experiments?.
critically tapered mean.	What does critically tapered mean? .
sophisticated, numericals model analog model orogenic wedge.	Which is more sophisticated, numericals model or an analog models of orogenic wedges? .
orogenic wedge work way.	What do orogenic wedges work in the same way as?.
analog model often considered compared orogenic wedge.	What are analog models often considered as compared to orogenic wedges?.
analog model include pathway metamorphism.	What do analog models include in the pathway for metamorphism?.
study give information tectonic plate boundary.	How do studies give information about tectonic plate boundaries?.
well known experiment pattern faulting.	What are some of the most well known experiments in patterns of faulting?.
layer sand pulled.	What are layers of sand pulled out of?.
analog model different numerical model.	How are analog models different than numerical models?.
horizontal layer sand called.	What are horizontal layers of sand called?.
study metamorphism pressure help clarify.	What do studies on metamorphism through pressure help clarify?.
analog model numerical model.	What does an analog model have that a numerical model doesn not?.
analysis stratigraphic section drill core done.	The analysis of stratigraphic sections such as drill cores is done by who?.
type survey show location stratigraphic unit subsurface.	What type of surveys show the location of stratigraphic units in the subsurface?.
combined geophysical data produce better view subsurface.	What can be combined with geophysical data to produce a better view of the subsurface?.
tool stratigraphers use see data three dimension.	What tool do stratigraphers use to see their data in three dimensions?.
stratigraphers try locate area type extraction.	Stratigraphers try to locate areas for what types of extraction? .
computer analyze lab.	What do computers analyze in the lab?.
example analyzed computer lab.	What is an example of what is analyzed by computers in the lab?.
drill core show water location.	What do drill cores show about water location?.
drill core ancient process combined show.	What can drill cores and ancient processes be combined to show?.
computer use coal reconstruct.	What do computers use coal to reconstruct?.
taken laboratory field.	What are taken from the laboratory into the field?.
show location drill core.	What shows the location of drill cores?.
computer program allows stratigraphers view subsurface three dimension.	What computer program allows stratigraphers to view the subsurface in three dimensions?.
well log.	What are well logs?.
ancient process used.	What are ancient processes used to do?.
analyzes rock sample drill core lab.	Who analyzes rock samples from drill cores in the lab? .
date rocks, precisely, within stratigraphic section.	Who dates rocks, precisely, within the stratigraphic section?.
important precisely date rock within stratigraphic section.	Why is it important to precisely date rocks within the stratigraphic section? .
type scientist look sign magnetic reversal igneous rock within drill core.	What types of scientists looks for signs of magnetic reversals in igneous rocks within the drill cores?.
geochronologists analyze fossil drill core.	What do geochronologists analyze fossils from drill cores for?.
outcrop sample help magnetic stratigraphers date.	What do outcrop samples help magnetic stratigraphers to date?.
biostratigraphers want understand past climate.	What do biostratigraphers want to understand about past climate?.
magnetic straitigraphers precisely date.	What do magnetic straitigraphers precisely date?.
geochronologists look drill core.	What do geochronologists look for in drill cores?.
found fossil.	What are found in fossils?.
help scientist date fossil.	What helps scientists to date fossils?.
magnetic stratigraphers use isotope study.	What do Magnetic stratigraphers use isotopes to study?.
stratigraphic section.	Where is the stratigraphic section?.
type study geochronologists perform.	What type of studies do Geochronologists perform?.
fielding h. garrison belief science geology traced.	Fielding H. Garrison believes that the science of geology can be traced to where?.
living 973–1048 ce one earliest persian geologists, name.	Living from 973–1048 CE he was one of the earliest Persian geologists, what was his name?.
china, person inferred land formed erosion mountain silt deposition, name.	In China, this person inferred that the land was formed by erosion of the mountains and by silt deposition, what was his name?.
person proposed explanation origin earthquake formation mountains, name.	This person proposed explanations for the origins of earthquakes and the formation of mountains, what was his name?.
prompted shen kuo believe land formed erosion mountain.	What prompted Shen Kuo to believe the land was formed by erosion of the mountains?.
ibna sina believe origin geology science.	Where did Ibna Sina believe the origin of geology science was?.
one earliest writing india written fielding h. garrison hypothesized.	One of the earliest writings on India written by Fielding H. Garrison hypothesized what?.
literature fielding h. garrison draw destroyed muslim.	What literature did Fielding H. Garrison draw from that wasn't destroyed by Muslims?.
ibn sina, lived 1031-1095 base hypothesis land formation.	What did Ibn Sina, who lived from 1031-1095 base his hypothesis for land formation on?.
fielding h. garrison believe land formed.	How did Fielding H. Garrison believe land was formed?.
fielding h. garrison.	Where is Fielding H. Garrison from?.
shen kuo's religion.	What was Shen Kuo's religion?.
greek indian literature destroyed conquest.	When was Greek and Indian literature destroyed by conquests?.
abu al-rayhan al-biruni base writing.	What did Abu al-Rayhan al-Biruni base his writings on?.
garrison born.	When was Garrison born?.
viewed first modern geologist.	Who is viewed as the first modern geologist?.
1785 james hutton presented paper royal society edinburgh.	In 1785 James Hutton presented what paper to the Royal Society of Edinburgh?.
james hutton published 2 volume version theory year.	James Hutton published a 2 volume version of his theories in what year?.
main idea james hutton's paper.	What was the main idea of James Hutton's paper?.
james hutton born.	When was James Hutton born?.
royal society edinburgh founded.	When was the Royal Society of Edinburgh founded?.
royal society edinburgh present 1785.	What did the Royal Society of Edinburgh present in 1785?.
theory royal society presented.	What was the theory the Royal Society presented?.
royal society think earth older previously thought.	Why did the Royal Society think the Earth was older than previously thought?.
james hutton born.	When was James Hutton born?.
royal society edinburgh formed.	When was the Royal Society of Edinburgh formed?.
hutton believe earth needed much younger previously believed.	Why did Hutton believe the earth needed to be much younger than previously believed?.
first geologist.	Who was the first geologist?.
hutton die.	When did Hutton die?.
produced first geological map u.s..	Who produced the first geological map of the U.S.?.
year first geological map u.s. produced.	In what year was the first geological map of the U.S. produced?.
year william maclure begin process creating first geological map u.s..	In what year did William Maclure begin the process of creating the first geological map of the U.S.?.
william maclure submit map.	To whom did William Maclure submit the map?.
memoir entitled submitted american philosophical society.	What was the memoir entitled which was submitted to the American Philosophical Society?.
american philosophical society created.	When was the American Philosophical Society created?.
american philosophical society produce 1809.	What did the American Philosophical Society produce in 1809?.
william smith cross 50 time.	What did William Smith cross about 50 times?.
memoir william smith write published society's transaction.	What memoir did William Smith write that was published in the Society's Transactions?.
william smith u.	What did William Smith do in the US?.
first geological map entire earth created.	When was the first geological map of the entire earth created?.
many time maclure cross union state.	How many times did Maclure cross the Union states?.
published william smith's geological map.	Who published William Smith's geological map?.
american philosophical society enlist maclure make geological survey.	When did the American Philosophical Society enlist Maclure to make the geological survey?.
many year later maclure's memoir published map.	How many years later was Maclure's memoir published after the map?.
first published sir charles lyell 1830 book called.	First published by Sir Charles Lyell in 1830 this book was called what? .
doctrine doctrine principle geology successfully promote.	What doctrine did the doctrine of the Principles of Geology successfully promote?.
theory state slow geological process still occurring today, occurred throughout earth's history.	Which theory states that slow geological processes are still occurring today, and have occurred throughout Earth's history?.
theory state earth's feature remained unchanged forming one single catastrophic event.	Which theory states that Earth's features remained unchanged after forming in one single catastrophic event?.
famous evolutionist influenced book principle geology.	Which famous evolutionist was influenced by the book Principles of Geology?.
charles darwin publish 1830.	What did Charles Darwin publish in 1830?.
charles darwin successfully promote.	What did Charles Darwin successfully promote?.
catastrophism believe still occurring today.	What does catastrophism believe is still occurring today?.
people think catastrophism charles darwin's time.	What did people think about catastrophism during Charles Darwin's time?.
hutton believe formed one catastrophic event.	What did Hutton believe was formed in one catastrophic event?.
book darwin publish 1830.	What book did Darwin publish in 1830?.
idea charles lyell widely accepted time publication.	What idea by Charles Lyell was widely accepted at the time of publication?.
sir charles lyell born.	When was Sir Charles Lyell born?.
charles lyell influenced.	Whom was Charles Lyell influenced by?.
lyell's book failed publicize view.	Lyell's book failed to publicize what view?.
word word pharmacy taken.	What word is the word pharmacy taken from?.
good sold pharma.	What goods were sold in a pharma?.
greek root pharmakos imply.	What did the Greek root pharmakos imply?.
would word apothecary viewed contemporary english speaker.	How would the word apothecary be viewed by contemporary English speakers?.
else used pharma.	What else was used by pharmas?.
pharma sell.	What did pharma not sell?.
english root pharmakos imply.	What did the English root pharmakos imply?.
else avoided pharma.	What else was avoided by pharmas?.
century term pharma last used.	In what century was the term pharma last used?.
type professional pharmacist.	What type of professionals are pharmacists?.
type health outcome pharmacist aim patient.	What types of health outcomes do pharmacists aim for with their patients?.
type treatment pharmacist important.	What type of treatment are pharmacists important for?.
role many pharmacist play.	What other role do many pharmacists play?.
type preparation pharmacist.	What types of preparation do pharmacists have?.
type professional pharmacist lack.	What type of professionals do pharmacists lack?.
type health outcome pharmacist never patient.	What types of health outcomes do pharmacists never have with their patients?.
role many pharmacist avoid.	What other role do many pharmacists avoid?.
type preparation pharmacist require.	What types of preparation do pharmacists not require?.
type treatment pharmacist needed.	What type of treatment are pharmacists not needed for?.
oversees pharmacy technician uk.	Who oversees a Pharmacy Technician in the UK?.
body must pharmacy technician register.	With what body must a pharmacy technician register?.
main duty gphc.	What is a main duty of the GPhC?.
type professional pharmacy technician considered.	What type of professional is a Pharmacy Technician considered to be?.
type responsibility might pharmacy technician.	What types of responsibilities might a pharmacy technician have?.
required oversee pharmacy technician uk.	Who is not required to oversee a Pharmacy Technician in the UK?.
body must pharmacy allowed register.	With what body must a pharmacy not be allowed to register?.
secondary duty gphc.	What is a secondary duty of the GPhC?.
type responsibility might pharmacy technician responsible.	What types of responsibilities might a pharmacy technician not be responsible for?.
man studying medicinal applicant plant ancient greece.	Who was a man studying medicinal applicants of plants in Ancient Greece?.
pedanius dioscorides known.	What is Pedanius Dioscorides known for?.
name latin translation dioscorides' book.	What is the name of the Latin translation of Dioscorides' book?.
term resulted dioscorides' book.	What term resulted from Dioscorides' book?.
added dioscorides' book islamic golden age.	Who added to Dioscorides' book in the Islamic Golden Age?.
man studying medicinal applicant plant modern greece.	Who is a man studying medicinal applicants of plants in Modern Greece?.
pedanius dioscorides known.	What is Pedanius Dioscorides not known for?.
name german translation dioscorides' book.	What is the name of the German translation of Dioscorides' book?.
removed dioscorides' book islamic golden age.	Who was removed from Dioscorides' book in the Islamic Golden Age?.
man study medicinal property plant ancient greece.	Who was the only man to study medicinal properties of plants in Ancient Greece?.
men task like today's pharmacist viewed japan asuka nara period.	How were the men who did tasks like those of today's pharmacists viewed in Japan in the Asuka and Nara periods?.
two code role pharmacist codified.	In which two codes were the roles of pharmacists codified?.
put hierarchical structure place.	What put a hierarchical structure in place?.
stature pharmacist pre-heian imperial court.	What stature did pharmacists have in the pre-Heian Imperial court?.
pharmacist stand relation emperor's personal physician.	Where did the pharmacist stand in relation to the Emperor's personal physicians?.
removed hierarchical structure.	What removed a hierarchical structure?.
two code role pharmacist destroyed.	Which two codes were the roles of pharmacists destroyed?.
pharmacist stand relation emperor.	Where did the pharmacist stand in relation to the Emperor?.
role respected asuka period.	What role was not respected during the Asuka period?.
development scientist influenced creation pharmacology medieval islam.	Developments in which scientists influenced the creation of pharmacology in medieval Islam?.
influential promoting use chemical compound medicine.	Who was influential in promoting the use of chemical compounds as medicines?.
authored liber servitoris.	Who authored the Liber servitoris?.
two compound al-muwaffaq differentiate.	Which two compounds did Al-Muwaffaq differentiate between?.
wrote distillation drinking water sea water.	Who wrote about the distillation of drinking water from sea water?.
influence promoting use chemical compound medicine.	Who had no influence in promoting the use of chemical compounds as medicines?.
read liber servitoris.	Who couldn't read the Liber servitoris?.
wrote distillation sea water drinking water.	Who wrote about the distillation of sea water from drinking water?.
two compound al-muwaffaq combine.	Which two compounds did Al-Muwaffaq combine?.
scientist avoided creation pharmacology modern islam.	Which scientists avoided the creation of pharmacology in modern Islam?.
far one pharmacy croatia date back.	How far does one pharmacy in Croatia date back to?.
oldest pharmacy stated located.	Where is the oldest pharmacy stated to be located?.
medieval esteve pharmacy used present.	What is the medieval Esteve Pharmacy used as at present?.
sort item displayed esteve pharmacy museum.	What sorts of items are displayed in the Esteve Pharmacy museum?.
year oldest pharmacy said established.	In what year is the oldest pharmacy said to have been established?.
newest pharmacy stated located.	Where is the newest pharmacy stated to be located?.
year oldest pharmacy said lost.	What year is the oldest pharmacy said to have been lost?.
medieval esteve pharmacy longer used present.	What is the medieval Esteve Pharmacy no longer used as at present?.
sort item never displayed esteve pharmacy museum.	What sorts of items are never displayed in the Esteve Pharmacy museum?.
dispensary subject majority country.	What is the dispensary subject to in a majority of countries?.
responsibility pharmacy technician formerly limited.	What responsibilities were pharmacy technicians formerly limited to?.
pharmacy technician depend.	What do pharmacy technicians depend on more and more?.
new responsibility pharmacy technician deal.	What are new responsibilities pharmacy technicians now deal with?.
pharmacy legislation mandate.	What does pharmacy legislation mandate?.
dispensary subject minority country.	What is the dispensary subject to in a minority of countries?.
pharmacy technician depend le le.	What do pharmacy technicians depend on less and less?.
pharmacy legislation never mandate.	What does pharmacy legislation never mandate?.
responsibility pharmacy technician limited.	What responsibilities are pharmacy technicians limited to?.
responsibility pharmacy technician never deal.	What are responsibilities pharmacy technicians never deal with?.
pharmacist acquire preparation following pharmacy school.	Where do pharmacists acquire more preparation following pharmacy school?.
clinical pharmacist specialize.	What do clinical pharmacists specialize in?.
one issue add complexity pharmacist's job.	What is one issue that adds to the complexity of a pharmacist's job?.
pharmacist likely seek additional education following pharmacy school.	Which pharmacists are likely to seek additional education following pharmacy school?.
pharmacist go following pharmacy school.	Where do pharmacists not go following pharmacy school?.
clinical pharmacist specialize.	What do clinical pharmacists not specialize in?.
one issue take away complexity pharmacist's job.	What is one issue that takes away the complexity of a pharmacist's job?.
pharmacist never seek additional education following pharmacy school.	Which pharmacists never seek additional education following pharmacy school?.
many hospital pharmacy located.	Where are many hospital pharmacies located?.
form hospital medication.	In what form are most hospital medications?.
type pharmacy function begun outsourced.	What types of pharmacy functions have begun to be outsourced?.
one factor increase importance pharmacy performing high level.	What is one factor that increases the importance of the pharmacy performing at a high level?.
advantage hospital pharmacy.	What are some advantages of hospital pharmacies?.
hospital pharmacy located.	Where are no hospital pharmacies located?.
form hospital medication forbidden.	What form are most hospital medications forbidden from being?.
type pharmacy function never outsourced.	What types of pharmacy functions have never been outsourced?.
one factor decrease importance pharmacy performing high level.	What is one factor that decreases the importance of the pharmacy performing at a high level?.
disadvantage hospital pharmacy.	What are some disadvantages of hospital pharmacies?.
service given pharmacist provide.	What do the services given by pharmacists provide?.
origin clinical pharmacy.	What is the origin of clinical pharmacy?.
clinical pharmacist work much time.	Who do clinical pharmacists work with much of the time?.
clinical pharmacist often participate.	What do clinical pharmacists often participate in?.
clinical pharmacist work patient.	Where do clinical pharmacists work with patients?.
origin clinical pharmacy.	What is not the origin of clinical pharmacy?.
clinical pharmacist never work.	Who do clinical pharmacists never work with?.
clinical pharmacist participate.	What do clinical pharmacists not participate in?.
clinical pharmacist allowed work patient.	Where are clinical pharmacists not allowed to work with patients?.
one example clinical pharmacist's duty entail.	What is one example of what a clinical pharmacist's duties entail?.
involved review prescribed medication.	What is involved in a review of prescribed medications?.
component drug therapy.	What are the components of drug therapy?.
factor pharmacist must monitor.	What are some other factors a pharmacist must monitor?.
example clinical pharmacist's duty entail.	What is not an example of what a clinical pharmacist's duties entail?.
never involved review prescribed medication.	What is never involved in a review of prescribed medications?.
longer component drug therapy.	What are no longer components of drug therapy?.
factor pharmacist can't monitor.	What are some other factors a pharmacist can't monitor?.
type authority ambulatory care pharmacist given u.s. federal health care system.	What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists given in the U.S. federal health care system?.
state pharmacist clinician given prescriptive diagnostic authority.	In what states are pharmacist clinicians given prescriptive and diagnostic authority?.
ambulatory care pharmacy approved certification.	When was ambulatory care pharmacy approved as its own certification?.
pharmacist pass ambulatory pharmacist exam called.	What will a pharmacist who passes the ambulatory pharmacist exam be called?.
entity included federal health care system.	What entities are included in the federal health care system?.
type authority ambulatory care pharmacist given u.s. federal health care system.	What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists not given in the U.S. federal health care system?.
state pharmacist clinician given prescriptive diagnostic authority.	What states are pharmacist clinicians given no prescriptive and diagnostic authority?.
ambulatory care pharmacy rejected certification.	When was ambulatory care pharmacy rejected as its own certification?.
entity included federal health care system.	What entities are not included in the federal health care system?.
pharmacist fails ambulatory pharmacist exam called.	What will a pharmacist who fails the ambulatory pharmacist exam be called?.
consultant pharmacy mainly concerned.	What is consultant pharmacy mainly concerned with?.
majority consultant pharmacist tend work.	Where do a majority of consultant pharmacists tend to work?.
large pharmacy management company.	What are some large pharmacy management companies?.
main reason consulting pharmacist increasingly working directly patient.	What is the main reason consulting pharmacists are increasingly working directly with patients?.
community pharmacy.	What do some community pharmacies do?.
consultant pharmacy concerned.	What is consultant pharmacy not concerned with?.
minority consultant pharmacist tend work.	Where do a minority of consultant pharmacists tend to work?.
small pharmacy management company.	What are some small pharmacy management companies?.
secondary reason consulting pharmacist increasingly working directly patient.	What is the secondary reason consulting pharmacists are increasingly working directly with patients?.
community pharmacy.	What do no community pharmacies do?.
internet pharmacy begin come.	When did internet pharmacies begin to come into being?.
often operates internet pharmacy.	Who often operates internet pharmacies?.
internet pharmacy also called.	What are internet pharmacies also called?.
one reason patient might choose internet pharmacy.	What is one reason a patient might choose an internet pharmacy?.
main difference online pharmacy community pharmacy.	What is the main difference between online pharmacies and community pharmacies?.
internet pharmacy begin end.	When did internet pharmacies begin to end?.
can't operates internet pharmacy.	Who can't operates internet pharmacies?.
internet pharmacy never called.	What are internet pharmacies never called?.
reason patient might choose internet pharmacy.	What is not a reason a patient might choose an internet pharmacy?.
different online pharmacy community pharmacy.	What is no different between online pharmacies and community pharmacies?.
might customer order internet pharmacy.	Why might customers order from internet pharmacies?.
criticized ordering online pharmacy require prescription.	Who has criticized ordering from online pharmacies that don't require prescriptions?.
criticism online pharmacy issue drug without prescription.	What is a criticism of online pharmacies that issue drugs without a prescription?.
practice internet pharmacy engage.	What practice do some internet pharmacies engage in?.
online pharmacy.	What do most online pharmacies do?.
might customer order internet pharmacy.	Why might customers not order from internet pharmacies?.
online pharmacy allow.	What do no online pharmacies allow?.
requirement online pharmacy issue drug without prescription.	What is a requirement of online pharmacies that issue drugs without a prescription?.
practice internet pharmacy avoid.	What practice do all internet pharmacies avoid?.
condition must met prescription controlled substance valid.	What conditions must be met for a prescription for a controlled substance to be valid?.
one problem internet pharmacy.	What is one problem with internet pharmacies?.
condition must met prescribe controlled substance.	What conditions must be met to prescribe a controlled substance?.
obligation pharmacy filling prescription.	What is the obligation of a pharmacy filling a prescription?.
defines constitutes patient-doctor relationship.	Who defines what constitutes a patient-doctor relationship?.
example controlled substance.	What is an example of a controlled substance?.
problem internet pharmacy.	What is not a problem with internet pharmacies?.
define constitutes patient-doctor relationship.	Who does not define what constitutes a patient-doctor relationship?.
example controlled substance.	What is not an example of a controlled substance?.
condition can't met prescribe controlled substance.	What conditions can't be met to prescribe a controlled substance?.
obligation pharmacy filling prescription.	What is not an obligation of a pharmacy filling a prescription?.
reason movement legalize importing medicine country.	What is a reason for the movement to legalize importing medicines from other countries?.
one country suggested importation medicine.	What is one country that has been suggested for importation of medicines?.
fda law importing medication aimed.	Who are FDA laws against importing medications aimed at?.
ever anyone charged importing drug canada personal medicinal use.	Has there ever been anyone charged with importing drugs from Canada for personal medicinal use?.
push u.s. reduce consumer drug cost.	What is there a push for in the U.S. to reduce consumer drug costs?.
reason movement illegalize importing medicine country.	What is a reason for the movement to illegalize importing medicines from other countries?.
one country can't suggested importation medicine.	What is one country that can't be suggested for importation of medicines?.
fda law importing medication aimed.	Who are FDA laws against importing medications not aimed at?.
push u.s. reduce consumer drug cost.	Why is there not a push for the U.S. to reduce consumer drug costs?.
two thing pharmacy informatics bring together.	What two things does pharmacy informatics bring together?.
field may pharmacy informatics also work.	What fields may pharmacy informatics also work in?.
whose need growth pharmacy informatics meet.	Whose needs will the growth in pharmacy informatics meet?.
area pharmacy informatics prepared work.	What areas are pharmacy informatics prepared to work in?.
fast pharmacy informatics growing.	How fast is pharmacy informatics growing?.
two thing pharmacy informatics bring together.	What two things can pharmacy informatics not bring together?.
field may pharmacy informatics work.	What fields may pharmacy informatics not work in?.
whose need growth pharmacy informatics damage.	Whose needs will the growth in pharmacy informatics damage?.
area pharmacy informatics prepared work.	What areas are pharmacy informatics not prepared to work in?.
fastest growing area pharmaceutical industry.	What is the fastest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry?.
many drug approved fda 2013 specialty drug.	How many drugs approved by the FDA in 2013 were specialty drugs?.
type disease specialty drug often used.	What types of diseases are specialty drugs often used against?.
type medication specialty pharmacy stock.	What types of medications do specialty pharmacies stock?.
besides drugs, else specialty pharmacy provide.	Besides drugs, what else do specialty pharmacies provide?.
slowest growing area pharmaceutical industry.	What is the slowest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry?.
many drug approved fda 2011 specialty drug.	How many drugs approved by the FDA in 2011 were specialty drugs?.
type disease specialty drug longer used.	What types of diseases are specialty drugs no longer used against?.
type medication specialty pharmacy never stock.	What types of medications do specialty pharmacies never stock?.
pharmacist regulated jurisdiction.	How are pharmacists regulated in most jurisdictions?.
jurisdiction say give scheduled drug public.	Who do most jurisdictions say can give scheduled drugs to the public?.
body stated physician also dispense drug specific condition.	What body has stated that physicians can also dispense drugs under specific conditions?.
estimate many physician give drug.	What is the estimate of how many physicians give out drugs on their own?.
pharmacist forbidden.	What are pharmacists forbidden to do?.
jurisdiction say give scheduled drug public.	Who do no jurisdictions say can give scheduled drugs to the public?.
body stated physician can't dispense drug specific condition.	What body has stated that physicians can't dispense drugs under specific conditions?.
pharmacist never regulated.	How are pharmacists never regulated?.
physician permitted prescribe give medication within practice.	Where are some physicians permitted to prescribe and give out medications within their practices?.
another country permit physician give drug within practice.	What is another country that permits physicians to give out drugs from within their practice?.
minimum distance patient's home nearest pharmacy allows physician give medication.	What is the minimum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician to give out medication?.
minimum distance patient's home nearest pharmacy allows physician austria give medicine.	What is the minimum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician in Austria to give out medicine?.
physician permitted prescribe give medication within practice.	Where are some physicians not permitted to prescribe and give out medications within their practices?.
another country permit physician give drug within practice.	What is another country that doesn't permit physicians to give out drugs from within their practice?.
maximum distance patient's home nearest pharmacy allows physician give medication.	What is the maximum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician to give out medication?.
maximum distance patient's home nearest pharmacy allows physician austria give medicine.	What is the maximum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician in Austria to give out medicine?.
majority rule used.	Why is majority rule used?.
might physician diagnose large number condition.	Why might a physician diagnose a large number of conditions?.
rule conflict interest involving doctor diagnosing patient resemble.	What do rules about conflict of interest involving doctors diagnosing patients resemble?.
might doctor's self-interest odds patient's self-interest.	Where might the doctor's self-interest be at odds with the patient's self-interest?.
else might physician take advantage self-interest.	How else might a physician take advantage of self-interest?.
majority rule avoided.	Why is majority rule avoided?.
might physician never diagnose large number condition.	Why might a physician never diagnose a large number of conditions?.
rule conflict interest involving doctor diagnosing patient resemble.	What do rules about conflict of interest involving doctors diagnosing patients not resemble?.
might doctor's self-interest equivalent patient's self-interest.	Where might the doctor's self-interest be equivalent with the patient's self-interest?.
else might physician take advantage self-interest.	How else might a physician not take advantage of self-interest?.
importance pharmacist coming decade.	What will be the importance of the pharmacist in coming decades?.
responsibility pharmacist believed taking future.	What responsibilities are pharmacists believed to be taking on more in the future?.
included medication therapy management.	What is included in Medication Therapy Management?.
example clinical service pharmacist provide.	What are examples of clinical services that pharmacists can provide?.
outcome expected medication therapy management.	What are outcomes expected with Medication Therapy Management?.
importance pharmacist past decade.	What will be the importance of the pharmacist in past decades?.
responsibility pharmacist believed taking le future.	What responsibilities are pharmacists believed to be taking less of in the future?.
included medication therapy management.	What is not included in Medication Therapy Management?.
example clinical service pharmacist provide.	What are not examples of clinical services that pharmacists can provide?.
outcome expected medication therapy management.	What outcomes are not expected with Medication Therapy Management?.
province canada limit right pharmacist prescribing.	Which provinces in Canada limit the rights of pharmacists in prescribing?.
pay australian pharmacist home medicine review.	Who pays Australian pharmacists for doing Home Medicines Reviews?.
pharmacist united kingdom increasingly paid.	What are pharmacists in the United Kingdom being increasingly paid for?.
field increased influence pharmacy united state.	What fields have increased in influence on pharmacy in the United States?.
degree mandatory u.s. order licensed pharmacist.	What degree is now mandatory in the U.S. in order to be a licensed pharmacist?.
province canada extend right pharmacist prescribing.	Which provinces in Canada extend the rights of pharmacists in prescribing?.
can't pay australian pharmacist home medicine review.	Who can't pay Australian pharmacists for doing Home Medicines Reviews?.
pharmacist united kingdom paid le.	What are pharmacists in the United Kingdom being paid less for?.
field lost influence pharmacy united state.	What fields have lost influence over pharmacy in the United States?.
degree longer mandatory u.s. order licensed pharmacist.	What degree is no longer mandatory in the U.S. in order to be a licensed pharmacist?.
two symbol signify pharmacy english-speaking country.	What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in English-speaking countries?.
symbol employed early 20th century.	What symbol was employed until early in the 20th century?.
country us bowl hygieia symbol pharmacy.	What country uses the Bowl of Hygieia as a symbol of pharmacy?.
country use red stylized signify pharmacy.	What countries use a red stylized A to signify pharmacy?.
country use green greek cross symbol pharmacy.	Which countries use the green Greek cross as a symbol of pharmacy?.
two symbol signify pharmacy non-english-speaking country.	What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in non-English-speaking countries?.
symbol employed early 19th century.	What symbol was employed until early in the 19th century?.
country longer us bowl hygieia symbol pharmacy.	What country no longer uses the Bowl of Hygieia as a symbol of pharmacy?.
country use blue stylized signify pharmacy.	What countries use a blue stylized A to signify pharmacy?.
country use red greek cross symbol pharmacy.	Which countries use the red Greek cross as a symbol of pharmacy?.
called people society rebel law think unfair.	What is it called when people in society rebel against laws they think are unfair?.
example major civil disobedience south africa.	What is an example of major civil disobedience in South Africa?.
movement called brought baltic country independence soviet union.	What was the the movement called that brought Baltic countries independence from the Soviet Union?.
2004 orange revolution occurred country.	In 2004 the Orange revolution occurred in what country?.
location 2003 rose revolution.	Where was the location of the 2003 Rose revolution?.
people brought forward one earliest example civil disobedience.	Which people brought forward one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience?.
one earliest example civil disobedience.	Who was one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience against?.
people chose civil disobedience protest.	Why do people chose civil disobedience to protest?.
civil disobedience protest.	What does civil disobedience protest against?.
civil right movement u known disobedience.	What civil rights movement in the US was known for it's disobedience?.
definition germany adopting communist government.	What is the definition of Germany adopting a Communist government?.
velvet revolution hope accomplish india.	What did the Velvet revolution hope to accomplish in India?.
whose occupation egyptian resist 2003 rose revolution.	Whose occupation did the Egyptians resist in the 2003 Rose Revolution?.
country 1919 revolution want bring independence russia.	To what countries did the 1919 Revolution want to bring independence to from Russia?.
country 2004 velvet revolution.	In what country was the 2004 Velvet Revolution?.
sophocles demonstrated civil disobedience play called.	Sophocles demonstrated civil disobedience in a play that was called?.
antigone's father play.	Who is Antigone's father in the play?.
name current king thebe play.	What is the name of the current King of Thebes in the play?.
character play portrays civil disobedience.	What character in the play portrays civil disobedience?.
creon trying stop antigone play.	What is Creon trying to stop Antigone from doing in the play? .
play showed early depiction civil disobedience.	What play showed an early depiction of civil disobedience?.
antigone play made.	Antigone was a play made by whom?.
antigone, target civil disobedience.	In Antigone, who was the target of civil disobedience?.
protest antigone.	What was the protest in Antigone about?.
civil disobedience shown antigone.	How was the civil disobedience shown in Antigone?.
play oedipus, demonstrates civil disobedience.	What play by Oedipus, demonstrates civil disobedience?.
father sophocles.	Who is the father of Sophocles?.
sophocles defy.	Who does Sophocles defy?.
sophocles defy creon play.	Why does Sophocles defy Creon in the play?.
must sophocles instead following king's.	What must Sophocles do instead of following the king's will?.
peterloo massacre poet wrote massacre anarchy.	After the Peterloo massacre what poet wrote The Massacre of Anarchy?.
poem considered first kind type protest.	His poem is considered the first kind of what type of protest?.
famous author used similarity likeness percy shelly writing.	What famous author used similarity and likeness of Percy Shelly in his writing?.
inspired shelley name gandhi's doctrine.	Inspired by Shelley what was the name of Gandhi's doctrine?.
gandhi often referenced shelley's poem effort.	Gandhi often referenced Shelley's poem in his efforts to do what? .
wrote poem mark anarchy.	Who wrote the poem The Mark of Anarchy?.
mark anarchy written protest.	The Mark of Anarchy was written to protest against what?.
principle shown mark anarchy.	What was the principle shown in The Mark of Anarchy?.
famous indian practiced civil disobedience.	Which famous Indian practiced civil disobedience?.
ghandi's work called.	What was Ghandi's work called?.
year satyagraha massacre.	In what year was the Satyagraha massacre?.
written ghandi 1819.	What was written by Ghandi in 1819?.
ghandi write mask anarchy.	Why did Ghandi write The Mask of Anarchy?.
theme ghandi begin mask anarchy.	What theme does Ghandi begin The Mask of Anarchy with?.
would henry david thoreau quote audience india.	What would Henry David Thoreau quote to audiences in India?.
vice president agnew describes civil disobedience activity.	Vice President Agnew describes Civil disobedience in what activities?.
civil disobedience argued recent time suffered.	Civil disobedience has been argued in more recent times to have suffered from what?.
present prevalence civil disobedience turned said.	More in the present prevalence of civil disobedience has turned and said to be?.
person argues civil disobedience used describe everything.	What person argues that civil disobedience is used to describe everything?.
modern times, said civil disobedience.	In modern times, what is said about civil disobedience?.
noted different current us civil disobedience.	Who noted the different current uses of civil disobedience?.
civil disobedience evolved current time.	How has civil disobedience evolved in current times?.
gave negative connotation civil disobedience recent history.	Who gave a negative connotation to civil disobedience in recent history?.
issue plaguing civil disobedience movement..	What issue has been plaguing the civil disobedience movement..
vice president agnew always suffered.	What had Vice President Agnew always suffered from? .
happened vice president agnew's status modern time.	What had happened to Vice President Agnew's status in modern times?.
marchall cohen note crime.	What did Marchall Cohen note about crime?.
type people always involved court system.	What types of people were always involved in the court system?.
type person would involved test case federal court.	What type of person would be involved in a test case in federal court?.
wrote difficult produce inclusive definition civil disobedience.	Who wrote that it is difficult to produce an all inclusive definition of civil disobedience?.
le grande also wrote defining term civil disobedience difficult could described.	Le Grande also wrote that defining the term civil disobedience so difficult it could be described as? .
le grand asks variance three term.	Le grand asks for a variance of what three terms?.
le grand state student studying civil disobedience often run grammatical nicety problem.	Le grand states that students studying civil disobedience will often run into grammatical niceties and what other problem? .
le grand concludes author's word offer intended imply regarding type terminology.	Le grand concludes that an author's words offer only what they intended for them to imply regarding this type of terminology?.
said writing good description civil disobedience hard.	Who said that writing a good description of civil disobedience is hard?.
much literature written regarding civil disobedience.	How much literature has been written regarding civil disobedience?.
issue plague literature civil disobedience.	What issue plagues the literature about civil disobedience?.
type protest fall civil disobedience without aggression.	What type of protest falls under civil disobedience without aggression?.
type civil disobedience accompanied aggression.	What type of civil disobedience is accompanied by aggression?.
wrote difficult formulate definition grammatical nicety.	Who wrote that its difficult to formulate a definition of grammatical niceties?.
legrande write grammatical nicety.	What did LeGrande write about grammatical niceties?.
surrounded trying study violence society.	What are you surrounded with if trying to study about violence in society?.
much written subject grammar.	How much has been written about the subject of grammar?.
novel written legrande.	What novel was written by LeGrande?.
head government refuse enforce decision highest court terminology could used.	If the head of government refuses to enforce a decision of the highest court what terminology could be used?.
constitutional impasse different civil disobedience include type person.	Constitutional impasse is different from civil disobedience because does not include what type of person?.
civil disobedience typically defined connection citizen's.	How is civil disobedience typically defined in connection of the citizen's?.
would person considered excising constitutional impasse.	When would a person be considered to be excising a constitutional impasse?.
constitutional impasse distinct key term.	Constitutional impasse is distinct from what key term? .
civil disobedience relate.	What does civil disobedience relate to?.
constitute civil disobedience.	What does not constitute as civil disobedience?.
type person attributed civil disobedience.	What type of person can not be attributed civil disobedience?.
civil disobedience mainly performed population group.	Civil Disobedience is mainly performed by what population group?.
group people cannot part civil disobedience.	What group of people cannot be part of civil disobedience?.
two public agency conflict defnintion civil disobedience.	What two public agencies conflict under the defnintion of civil disobedience?.
else agency relationship civil disobedience definition.	What else does an agency have a relationship with under the civil disobedience definition?.
many citizen conflict constitutional impasse.	How many citizens conflict in a constitutional impasse?.
group promotes using conflict decide case.	What group promotes using conflict to decide cases?.
constitutional impasse pertains citizen relates state.	A constitutional impasse pertains to how a citizen relates to the state and what?.
author argues pitching conscience versus collective.	What author argues pitching the conscience versus the collective?.
thoreau's punishment paying tax.	What was Thoreau's punishment for not paying his taxes?.
thoreau argues usually majority rule view collectively sometimes.	Thoreau argues that usually majority rules but their views collectively are sometimes?.
thoreau ask public figure taxman.	What did Thoreau ask a public figure the taxman to do?.
thoreau mention type person could corrupt government system.	Thoreau mentions what type of person could corrupt a government system?.
final judge right wrong.	Who is the final judge of right and wrong?.
blame acting unjustly.	Who is to blame for acting unjustly?.
famous disobedience tax collector.	Who was famous for disobedience against a tax collector?.
advise thoreau give tax collector unable perform duty.	What advise did Thoreau give the tax collector when unable to perform his duty?.
thoreau claim majority.	What did Thoreau claim about the majority?.
taxman's political philosophy.	What was the taxman's political philosophy?.
government final judge.	What was the government the final judge of?.
government refuse pay.	Who did the government refuse to pay?.
government want thoreau.	What did the government want Thoreau to do?.
who's may elite politician follow according government.	Who's will may elite politicians follow according to the government?.
theory argue civil disobedience justified regard.	Some theories argue that civil disobedience is justified in regard to?.
brownlee argues disobedience justified toward institution.	Brownlee argues disobedience can be justified toward what institutions?.
brownlee justifies civil disobedience toward branch government.	Brownlee justifies civil disobedience toward what branch of the government?.
browlee also applies civil disobedience okay regarding.	Browlee also applies that civil disobedience is okay regarding?.
theory claim civil disobedience.	What do some theories claim about civil disobedience?.
claim public company also part civil disobedience.	Who claims that public companies can also be part of civil disobedience?.
reason given also protest public company.	What reason is given that you should also protest public companies?.
public entity learning often target civil disobedience.	What public entity of learning is often target of civil disobedience?.
believed civil disobedience used governmental entity.	Who believed that civil disobedience should only be used against governmental entities?.
two group trade union think civil disobedience justified.	What two groups do trade unions think civil disobedience is justified against?.
civil disobedience justified certain group according trade union.	When is civil disobedience justified against certain groups according to trade unions?.
way disobedience applied international organization government.	In what other way can disobedience be applied to international organizations and governments?.
bank believe civil disobedience justified.	When do banks believe civil disobedience is justified?.
law breaking done public manor considered term.	If law breaking is not done in a public manor it is not considered what term?.
stephen eilmann asks show public civil disobedience instead better idea.	Stephen Eilmann asks why show public civil disobedience instead what is a better idea?.
stephen eilmann demonstrates covert law breaking nazi germany. citizen's illegally.	Stephen Eilmann demonstrates covert law breaking in Nazi Germany.   Citizen's illegally had been doing what? .
stephen eildmann cite oldest known example civil disobedience part bible.	Stephen Eildmann cites the oldest known example of civil disobedience in what part of the bible? .
two woman defying pharaoh story book exodus.	What two women were defying the pharaoh in the story from the book of Exodus? .
must done make non public lawbreaking acknowledged civil disobedience.	What must be done to make non public lawbreaking acknowledged as civil disobedience?.
necessary disobey.	What is necessary to disobey?.
sometimes effective civil disobedience time.	What is sometimes more effective than civil disobedience at times?.
dilemma good example moral civil disobedience.	What dilemma is a good example of moral civil disobedience?.
book bible discus civil disobedience.	What book of the Bible discusses civil disobedience?.
must announced publicly still find lawyer represent.	What must be announced publicly so you can still find a lawyer to represent you?.
publication written stephen eilmann.	What publication was written by Stephen Eilmann?.
book bible knowledge law traced back.	What Book of the Bible is knowledge of the law traced back to?.
two woman refused commit perjury book exodus.	What two women refused to commit perjury in the Book of Exodus?.
dilemma good example perjury.	What dilemma is a good example of perjury?.
cristian bay's encyclopedia concludes civil disobedience include behavior.	Cristian Bay's encyclopedia concludes that civil disobedience does not only include what behavior?.
dictionary contains non- violent definition.	What dictionary contains a non- violent definition?.
terminology considered much destructive.	What other terminology is considered much more destructive?.
people behaving civil disobedience not-violent said make society.	People behaving with civil disobedience that is not-violent is said to make society have more of what?.
debate civil disobedience include exclude major practice.	Debates about civil disobedience include or exclude what major practice? .
type civil disobedience commonly accepted.	What type of civil disobedience is commonly accepted?.
violence used, civil disobedience sometimes called.	When violence is used, what is civil disobedience sometimes called?.
one result civil rebellion.	What is one result of civil rebellion?.
preferred civil disobedience non violent.	Why is it preferred that civil disobedience is non violent?.
action christian bay help society tolerate civil disobedience.	What action by Christian Bay helps a society tolerate civil disobedience?.
one thing rebellion must black's law dictionary.	What is one thing that rebellion must have in Black's Law Dictionary?.
rebellion require christian bay's encyclopedia.	What does rebellion require in Christian Bay's encyclopedia?.
black's law dictionary say rebellion.	What does Black's Law Dictionary say that rebellion doesn't have to be?.
result rebellion according black's law dictionary.	What is the result of rebellion according to Black's Law Dictionary?.
called active attempt overthrow government belief system.	What is it called when there is an active attempt to overthrow a government or belief system?.
group people performed revolutionary civil disobedience toward austrian government.	What group of people performed revolutionary civil disobedience toward the Austrian government?.
hungarian performed civil disobedience direction person.	The Hungarians performed this civil disobedience under the direction of what person?.
revolutionary civil disobedience towards culture highlighted example.	Revolutionary civil disobedience towards culture is highlighted by example of who? .
topic civil disobedience pertain.	What other topics can Civil disobedience pertain to?.
simple form civil disobedience.	What is a simple form of civil disobedience?.
would person chose civil disobedience specific law.	Why would a person chose civil disobedience against specific laws?.
goal individual civil disobedience.	What is the goal of individual civil disobedience?.
type civil disobedience larger scale.	What type of civil disobedience is larger scale?.
famous indian's action considered civil disobedience.	What famous Indian's actions were considered civil disobedience?.
non-revolutionary civil disobedience want overthrow.	What does non-revolutionary civil disobedience want to overthrow?.
individual conscience.	What does an individual conscience not have to be?.
ghandi mention right abolish unjust government declaration independence.	What did Ghandi mention about the right to abolish an unjust government in The Declaration of Independence?.
ghandi think using conscience accomplished.	What did Ghandi think that using your conscience accomplished?.
harvey wheeler direct hungarian.	What did Harvey Wheeler direct the Hungarians to do?.
earliest example civil disobedience whole occur.	When did the earliest examples of civil disobedience as a whole occur?.
jewish people pagan item temple jerusalem.	What did the Jewish people do so pagan items wouldn't be in the temple of Jerusalem?.
since thoreau well known writer happened arrested.	Since Thoreau was not a well known writer what happened when he was arrested?.
position tax collector arrested thoreau get.	What position did the tax collector that arrested Thoreau get?.
thoreau's essay published.	When was Thoreau's essay published?.
oldest recorded incident civil disobedience.	When is the oldest recorded incident of civil disobedience?.
goal roman disobedience.	What was the goal of this Roman disobedience?.
recent civil disobedience done group form.	What is a recent civil disobedience done in a group form?.
civil disobedience called people refuse released.	What is the civil disobedience called where people refuse to be released?.
long take thoreau's disobedience known.	How long did it take for Thoreau's disobedience to be known?.
took place mexian war.	What took place during the Mexian War?.
tax collector try prevent installed temple.	What did tax collectors try to prevent from being installed in the Temple?.
political office refuse sign involved civil disobedience.	What do those in political office refuse to sign when involved in civil disobedience?.
event covered jew arrested tax collector.	How was the event covered when Jews were arrested by tax collectors?.
essay written modern activist published.	When was the essay written by modern activists published?.
civil disobedients chosen many different kind type behavior.	Civil disobedients have chosen many different kinds of what type of behaviors?.
bedau note illegal protest towards public policy may serve purpose.	Bedau notes that illegal protests towards public policy may serve as what purpose?.
group civil disobedients brought medicine iraq without permission government.	What group of civil disobedients brought medicine to Iraq without the permission of the government?.
long julia butterfly hill live tree.	How long did Julia Butterfly Hill live in a tree?.
outcome living california redwood tree.	What was the outcome of living in the California Redwood tree?.
type action taken sometimes civil disobedience.	What type of actions are taken sometimes in civil disobedience?.
example illegal disobedience.	What is an example of illegal disobedience?.
protest usually considered type.	Such protests are usually considered to be what type?.
type goal usually done skirting law.	What type of goals are usually done skirting the law?.
lived tree prevent cut form civil disobedience.	Who lived in a tree to prevent it from being cut down as a form of civil disobedience?.
long julia butterfly hill live near nuclear-missile installation.	How long did Julia Butterfly Hill live near a nuclear-missile installation?.
bedau live prevent cut.	What did Bedau live in to prevent it from being cut down?.
symbolic protest accomplish according julia butterfly hill.	What do symbolic protests accomplish according to Julia Butterfly HIll?.
company bedau part breaking law bringing medicine iraq.	What company was Bedau a part of while breaking the law by bringing medicine to Iraq?.
example ineffective absurd act according julia butterfly hill.	What is an example of an ineffective and absurd act according to Julia Butterfly Hill?.
joseph haas arrested.	What was Joseph Haas arrested for?.
joseph haas say email.	What did Joseph Haas say in his email?.
civil disobedience occur people speak certain topic deemed.	Civil disobedience can occur when people speak about a certain topic that is deemed as?.
wbai's broadcasting george carlin's comedy eventually led.	WBAI's broadcasting Some of George Carlin's comedy eventually led to what?.
year case go supreme court.	What year did the the case go before the supreme court?.
one criminal behavior hard stop authority.	What is one criminal behavior that is hard to stop by authorities?.
one way use pure speech reach much people possible protest.	What is one way to use pure speech to reach as much people as possible to protest?.
protest government individual way.	How can you protest against the government in an individual way?.
one way digital civil disobedience far reaching consequence.	What is one way of digital civil disobedience that can have far reaching consequences?.
george carlin send city council new hampshire.	What did George Carlin send to the city council in New Hampshire?.
george carlin tell city council new hampshire.	What did George Carlin tell the city council to do in New Hampshire?.
happened george carlin sent e-mail.	What happened to George Carlin after he sent the e-mail?.
court case eventually result joseph haas sending e-mail new hampshire city council.	What court case was eventually the result of Joseph Haas sending and e-mail to the New Hampshire city council?.
protest wbai policy individual.	How can you protest against WBAI and its policies as an individual?.
boycotting, refusing pay taxes, sit ins, draft dodging make harder.	Boycotting, refusing to pay taxes, sit ins, and draft dodging all make what harder?.
name one way plowshare organization temporarily close gcsb waihopai.	Name one way the Plowshares organization temporarily close GCSB Waihopai?.
name way plowshare organization temporarily closed.	Name the other way that the Plowshares organization temporarily closed?.
brownlee argues sometimes people behave way issue heard.	Brownlee argues that sometimes people behave in what way to have their issue heard?.
large group people boycott system pay tax considered.	When large groups of people all boycott a system or don't pay taxes it can be considered?.
type disobedience federal government.	What is a type of disobedience against the federal government?.
side effect type protest unfortunate.	What side effect of these type of protests is unfortunate?.
goal many protest.	What goal do many of these protests have?.
protest big company non violent way.	How can you protest against big companies in a non violent way?.
denial service attack make harder plowshare organization.	What did denial of service attacks make it harder for The Plowshares organization to do?.
using moral dialogue considered following law.	What is using moral dialogue considered when not following the law?.
action brownlee take gcsb waihopai caused close temporarily.	What action did Brownlee take against GCSB Waihopai that caused them to close temporarily?.
method government use get issue heard.	What method does the government use to get their issue heard?.
government restrain engaging disobedience.	Why does the government restrain itself when engaging in disobedience?.
type government investigation apply civil disobedience.	What type of government investigations apply to civil disobedience?.
way show police officer civil disobedience.	What is a way you can show police officers civil disobedience ?.
avoided talking authority.	What should be avoided when talking to authorities?.
reason cause failure disobedience authority.	What reasons cause failure of the disobedience with authorities?.
people purposely resist officer law.	Why do some people purposely resist officers of the law?.
applies collecting tax searching property.	What applies to both collecting taxes and searching property?.
people find hard talk tax agent.	Why do some people find it hard to not talk to a tax agent?.
tax agent want make impression arrest.	Who do some tax agents want to make and impression on during an arrest?.
someone diagnosed maniac need decide dealing police.	What does someone diagnosed as a maniac need to decide  when dealing with police?.
thoreau believe talking police officer.	What did Thoreau believe about talking to police officers?.
civil disobedient people feel need acknowledge..	What do some civil disobedient people feel the need to acknowledge..
need acceptance punishment needed.	Why is the need for acceptance of punishment needed?.
people protest.	What do some people protest against?.
group called agree government.	What is the group called that does not agree with government at all?.
anarchist want accept punishment reason.	Anarchists do not want to accept punishment for what reason?.
anarchist want accept punishment.	Why do anarchists want to accept punishment?.
anarchist accept role government.	What do anarchists accept about the role of government?.
anarchist favor government, believe.	While anarchists favor government, what don't they believe in?.
anarchist feel must accept consequence action breaking law.	What do anarchists feel they must accept as a consequence of their actions in breaking the law?.
government exist according anarchist.	Why does government exist according to anarchists?.
important personal decision civil disobedients.	What is an important personal decision for civil disobedients?.
duty people believe civil disobedients.	Which duty do some people believe civil disobedients have?.
would one plead guilty crime involving civil disobedience.	Why would one plead guilty to a crime involving civil disobedience?.
reason given sometimes plead guilty involving matter.	Which reason is given sometimes to plead not guilty involving these matters?.
third type plea us creative word.	What third type of plea uses creative words?.
group need decide make creative plea.	What group needs to decide if they should make a creative plea or not?.
contest plea.	What is a no contest plea the same as?.
people think act up's duty caught.	What do some people think ACT UP's duty should be when caught?.
people pleading contest believe defending.	What do people pleading no contest believe about defending themselves?.
plea contest compromose creative plea pleading.	A plea of no contest is a compromose between a creative plea and pleading what?.
la vega famous protest take place.	Where in Las Vegas did a famous protest take place?.
civil disobedience performed test site.	What was the civil disobedience performed at the test site?.
result disobedience protesting nuclear site.	What was the result of the disobedience protesting the nuclear site?.
lawyer suggest would plea.	How did their lawyer suggest they would plea?.
type sentence protester given.	What type of sentences were the protesters given?.
sponsored francis heisler august 1957.	What was sponsored by Francis Heisler in August 1957?.
francis heisler plan protest.	Where did Francis Heisler plan to have her protest?.
many missles nuclear test site.	How many missles were at the nuclear test site?.
francis heisler taken protest.	Where was Francis Heisler taken after the protest?.
sentence francis heisler given found guilty.	What sentence was Francis Heisler given when she was found guilty?.
people chose go jail disobedience.	Why do some people chose to go to jail for their disobedience?.
going jail accomplished goal civil disobedience.	Going to jail accomplished what goal of civil disobedience?.
important item civil disobedience follow.	What is the most important item for civil disobedience to follow through?.
one go jail.	Why should one not go to jail?.
two reason conservative went jail.	What are two reasons Conservatives went to jail?.
main point conservative protesting.	What is the main point of being a Conservative and protesting?.
howard zinn believe removed.	What does Howard Zinn believe should be removed?.
following rule help preserve protest.	What does following the rules help to preserve with a protest?.
conservative seriousness protest.	What does being a Conservative do to the seriousness of a protest?.
type punishment sometimes offered civil disobedients.	What type of punishment is sometimes offered to civil disobedients?.
usually goal taking plea bargain.	What is usually the goal of taking a plea bargain?.
many people arrested, common tactic negotiating.	When many people are arrested, what is a common tactic negotiating?.
type plea sometimes taken act disobedience.	What type of plea is sometimes taken as an act of disobedience?.
famous indian took plea put mercy court.	Which famous Indian took a plea and put himself at the mercy of the courts?.
prosecution propose ghandi's trial.	What did the prosecution propose in Ghandi's trial?.
group decided enter blind plea without jailtime.	What group decided to enter a blind plea without any jailtime?.
ghandi decide use everyone would deal.	What did Ghandi decide to use so that everyone would have the same deal?.
camden 28 decide submit court pleading guilty.	How did the Camden 28 decide to submit themselves to the court after pleading guilty?.
camden 28 describe action court.	How did the Camden 28 describe their actions to the court?.
way people perform civil disobedience constructive way.	What way do some people perform civil disobedience in a constructive way?.
would one want give speech.	Why would one want to give a speech?.
giving defiant speech sometimes harmful individual.	Why is giving a defiant speech sometimes more harmful for the individual?.
would one want give punishment.	Why would one want to give more punishment?.
type treatment civil disobedients usually receive.	What type of treatment do civil disobedients usually receive?.
government official give response illegal action.	What do some government officials give in response to illegal actions?.
navy give speech court.	Why did the Navy give a speech in court?.
much navy increase defendant's sentence.	By how much did the Navy increase the defendant's sentence?.
speech given navy mention treatment protester.	What did speeches given by the Navy mention about their treatment by protesters?.
u v. burgos-andujar, member navy's sentence increased.	In the US v. Burgos-Andujar, why was a member of the Navy's sentence increased?.
primary goal pleading guilty arrested civil disobedience.	What is the primary goal of pleading not guilty when arrested for Civil Disobedience?.
secondary goal pleading guilty.	What is a secondary goal of pleading not guilty?.
would someone civilly disobedient court.	What would someone who is civilly disobedient do in court?.
u war large amount civil disobedients.	What US war has a large amount of Civil Disobedients?.
sympathetic juror case civil disobedients.	What can sympathetic Jurors in cases with civil disobedients?.
defense used steven barkan.	What defense was used by Steven Barkan?.
kind press coverage defendant plead guilty.	What kind of press coverage is there when defendants plead not guilty?.
main goal trying get jury nullification trial.	What is the main goal of trying to get jury nullification during trial?.
plea entered case u v. dougherty.	What plea was entered in the case the US v. Dougherty?.
judge let juror know chicago eight case.	What did the judge have to let the jurors know about in the Chicago Eight case?.
need avoided civil disobedience.	What needs to be avoided with civil disobedience?.
disobedience general public avoided.	Why should disobedience by the general public be avoided?.
one main reason civil disobedience recognized.	What is one main reason that civil disobedience is not recognized?.
someone commit crime protesting.	Why should someone not commit a crime when they are protesting?.
reason would someone avoid crime protesting.	For what reason would someone avoid crimes while protesting?.
great amount self-gratification undermine.	What does a great amount of self-gratification undermine?.
happen focus self-gratification.	What should happen if you focus only on self-gratification?.
one reason securing amendment law recognized.	What is one reason securing an amendment of the law is not recognized?.
conscientious toward law lead.	What does being conscientious toward the law lead to?.
winning case avoided public.	Why should winning your case be avoided by the public?.
violating law goal protest called.	What is violating a law which is not the goal of the protest called?.
law direct target protest, called.	When the law is a direct target of the protest, what is this called?.
u war caused high amount civil disobedience.	What US war caused a high amount of civil disobedience?.
type defense sometimes used court protestors.	What type of defense is sometimes used in court by protestors?.
people distribute leaflet inside courthouse arrested.	Why are people who distribute leaflets inside courthouses not been arrested?.
indirect civil disobedience protest law.	What does indirect civil disobedience protest a law by doing?.
direct civil disobedience law protested.	What does direct civil disobedience do to the law that isn't being protested?.
passed educational leaflet courtroom vietnam war.	Who passed out educational leaflets in courtrooms during the Vietnam War?.
carter wentworth hand court escape prosecution.	What did Carter Wentworth hand out in court to escape prosecution?.
arrested, would happen leaflet handed carter wentworth court.	If he was arrested, what would happen to the leaflets that were handed out by Carter Wentworth in court.
main goal criminal punishment civil disobedients.	What is the main goal of criminal punishment of civil disobedients?.
main goal using punishment system.	What should be the main goal of not using punishment in a just system?.
decides fate protester time.	Who decides the fate of protesters most of the time?.
punishment rely instead society.	What should the punishment rely on instead in a just society?.
major reason judge use morality crime.	What is a major reason judges use morality against crime?.
focusing morality help judge achieve.	What does focusing on morality help a judge to achieve?.
decides law moral.	Who decides if a law is moral?.
important thing deciding law moral.	What is the most important thing when deciding if a law is moral?.
ground law judged moral.	On what grounds is a law judged to be moral?.
process constructing building infrastructure.	What is the process of constructing a building or infrastructure?.
typically involves mass production similar item without designated purchaser.	What typically involves mass production of similar items without a designated purchaser?.
percentile gross domestic product construction comprised.	What percentile of gross domestic product is construction comprised of?.
three thing needed construction take place.	What three things are needed for construction to take place?.
construction take place location.	Construction takes place on location for who?.
involves limited production designated purchase.	What involves limited production with a designated purchase? .
usually take place location unknown client.	What usually takes place on location for an unknown client?.
comprise 69 percent.	What does comprise 69 percent of?.
three thing recommended construction begin.	What three things are recommended before construction begins?.
manufacturing take place.	Where does manufacturing take place?.
much developed country gdp manufacturing comprise.	How much of a developed countries GDP does manufacturing comprise?.
involves mass production similar item without designated planning.	What involves mass production of similar items without designated planning?.
long process manufacturing continue.	How long does the process of manufacturing continue?.
three thing need manufacturing happen.	What three things do you need for manufacturing to happen?.
normally manages construction job.	Who normally manages a construction job?.
normally supervises construction job.	Who normally supervises a construction job?.
essential successful execution project.	What is essential for the successful execution of a project?.
largest construction project known.	The largest construction projects are known as what?.
zoning requirements, environmental impact, budgeting, logistics thing consider.	Zoning requirements, environmental impact, budgeting, and logistics are things who should consider?.
primarily independent effort.	What is primarily and independent effort?.
constuction engineer manage.	What does a constuction engineer manage?.
term large construction project.	What is the term for any large construction project?.
seldom considered involved design execution infatructure.	What is seldom considered by those involved with the design and execution of infatructure?.
requires collaboration across zoning requirement.	What requires collaboration across zoning requirements?.
normally manages environmental impact job.	Who normally manages the environmental impact of the job?.
normally supervises inconvenience public.	Who normally supervises inconvenience to the public?.
largest infrastructure question referred.	What is the largest infrastructure in question referred to?.
necessary successfully completing bidding project.	What is necessary for successfully completing  bidding on a project?.
three sector construction.	What are the three sectors of construction?.
building construction usually divided category.	Building construction is usually further divided into what categories?.
infrastructure often called.	Infrastructure is often called what?.
large public works, dams, bridges, highways, water/wastewater utility distribution construction sector.	Large public works, dams, bridges, highways, water/wastewater and utility distribution are under what construction sector?.
refineries, process chemical, power generation, mill manufacturing plant sector construction.	Refineries, process chemical, power generation, mills and manufacturing plants are under what sector of construction?.
buildings, stuctures industrial.	What are buildings, stuctures and industrial?.
type constuction eivided private public building.	What type of constuction is eivided into private and public buildings?.
sector includes large public work utility distribution.	What sector includes large public works but not utility distribution?.
sector include utility distribution refinery.	What sector include utility distribution and refineries?.
three sector public work.	What three sectors of public works are there?.
utility distribution divided.	How is utility distribution further divided?.
refinery often called.	What are refineries often called?.
example market.	What are some examples of markets?.
residential non-residential also broken.	What can residential and non-residential also be broken into?.
engineering news-record.	What is Engineering News-Record?.
compiles report data size design construction company.	What compiles and reports on data about the size of design and construction companies?.
year enr compile data nine market segment.	In what year did ENR compile data in nine market segments?.
enr used data rank top 400 firm heavy contractor.	ENR used data on what to rank Top 400 firms as heavy contractors?.
trade magazine design industry.	What is a trade magazine for design industry?.
report size havy equipment construction coompanies.	Who reports on the size of havy equipment and construction coompanies?.
u company compiled top-250.	What US companies are compiled in the Top-250.
largest global firm picked top-40 list.	How are the largest global firms picked for the Top-40 list?.
enr compile 2004.	What did ENR compile in 2004?.
magazine design company.	What is a magazine for design companies?.
global firm report construction industry.	What do global firms report on for the construction industry?.
one thing market segment publish.	What is one thing that market segments publish?.
list top 250 transportation market published show.	What does  a list of top 250 transportation markets published show?.
year largest company u compile data nine market segment.	In what year did the largest companies in the US compile data on nine market segments?.
three construction subsectors.	What are the three construction subsectors?.
category.	There are other categories for what?.
classification system construction company.	What has a classification system for construction companies?.
construction manager.	What are construction managers?.
three building subsectors.	What are the three building subsectors?.
classification system newer north american industry classification system.	What Classification system is newer than the North American Industry Classification System?.
classification system north american company.	Who has a classification system for all North American companies?.
manages construction project assumes financial responsibility completing.	Who manages construction projects and assumes financial responsibility for completing them?.
system classify trade contractor.	What systems classify trade contractors?.
difference engineering recognized.	How are the differences in engineering  recognized?.
three construction subsectors firm managing construction project divided.	What three construction subsectors are firms managing construction projects divided into?.
heavy civil engineering construction managing project.	What does heavy and civil engineering construction not do when managing projects?.
system company financial responsibility completing project.	Who has a system for companies that have financial responsibility of completing a project?.
process adding structure real property construction building.	What is the process of adding structure to real property or construction of buildings?.
majority building construction job.	The majority of building construction jobs are what?.
act laborer, paymaster, design team renovation project.	Who acts as laborer, paymaster, and design team for a renovation project?.
example undesirable end result project.	What are some examples of undesirable end results of a project?.
field ensure positive outcome.	What do those in the field do to ensure a positive outcome?.
new home comprise majority.	What do new homes comprise the majority of?.
common outcome project.	What are common outcomes of a project?.
people experience need.	What do people with experience not need to do?.
forman act besides paymaster.	What does the forman act as besides paymaster?.
common element often act.	What do common elements often act as?.
process adding detailed plan careful oversight.	What is the process of adding detailed plans and careful oversight?.
detailed plan construction.	What are most detailed plans in construction?.
element make room edition.	What elements make up a room edition?.
example legal consideration addition.	What are some examples of legal considerations for an addition?.
residential construction practices, technologies, resource must conform.	Residential construction practices, technologies, and resources must conform to what?.
generally dictate construction material used.	What generally dictates the construction materials used?.
residential construction generate carefully planned.	Residential construction can generate what is not carefully planned?.
site conditions, local regulations, economy scale availability skilled tradespeople affect.	Site conditions, local regulations, economies of scale and the availability of skilled tradespeople all affect what?.
must local regulation conform.	What must local regulations conform to?.
custom designed home dictate area.	What do custom designed homes dictate in the area?.
condition make availability skilled tradespeople vary.	What are some conditions that make the availability of skilled tradespeople vary?.
effect technology resource generate.	What effect do technologies and resources generate?.
need happen prevent building authority regulation.	What needs to happen to prevent building authority regulations?.
new technique building construction researched, made possible advance.	New techniques of building construction are being researched, made possible by advances in what?.
building printing making possible flexibly construct small commercial building private habitation amount time.	Building printing is making it possible to flexibly construct small commercial buildings and private habitations in what amount of time?.
dutch architect janjaap ruijssenaars's performative architecture 3d-printed building scheduled built.	Dutch architect Janjaap Ruijssenaars's performative architecture 3D-printed building is scheduled to be built when?.
working version 3d-printing building technology already printing much building material per hour.	Working versions of 3D-printing building technology are already printing how much building material per hour?.
janjaap ruijssenaar going build 2013.	What is Janjaap Ruijssenaar going to build in 2013?.
make research built-in plumbing possible.	What makes research in built-in plumbing possible?.
flexible construction similar.	What is flexible construction similar to?.
long take build electrical facility.	How long does it take to build electrical facilities?.
2014 quickly building material printed.	As of 2014 how quickly is building material being printed?.
construction involves translation.	Construction involves the translation of what?.
formal design team may assembled.	A formal design team may be assembled to do what?.
design team commonly employed.	The design team is most commonly employed by who?.
provides bill quantity.	Who provides the bill of quantities?.
owner typically award contract.	The owner typically awards a contract to who?.
quantity surveyor design.	What does a quantity surveyor do with a design? .
group prepares bid work.	What group prepares the bid for work?.
owner award bill quantity.	Who does the owner award  a bill of quantities to?.
construction company asked plan.	What  are construction companies asked to plan?.
modern trend design toward integration.	The modern trend in design is toward integration of what?.
even large firms, architects, interior designers, engineers, developers, construction managers, general contractor likely.	Even in large firms, architects, interior designers, engineers, developers, construction managers, and general contractors were more likely to be what?.
modern times, firm may offer construction project.	In modern times, firms may offer themselves as what for a construction project?.
kind contract given contractor given performance specification must undertake project design construction, adhering performance specification.	What kind of contract is given when the contractor is given a performance specification and must undertake the project from design to construction, while adhering to the performance specifications?.
trend skill among architect.	What is the trend in skills among architects?.
type employee interior design firm usually.	What types of employees does and interior design firm usually have?.
engineer offer project.	What do engineers offer themselves as for a project?.
description associated company contract.	What is a description of an associated company contract?.
group previously considered integrated.	What groups were previously considered to be integrated?.
project structure assist owner integration.	What project structures assist the owner in integration?.
project structure allow owner integrate service throughout design construction.	These project structures allow the owner to integrate the services of who throughout the design and construction?.
many construction company placing emphasis.	Many construction companies are now placing more emphasis on what?.
partnering construction management emphasize design-build process.	What do partnering and construction management emphasize for the design-build process?.
help owner design construction.	What helps the owner in design and construction?.
who's service construction service integrate design construction.	Who's services do construction services integrate through design and construction?.
help interior designer integration.	What helps the interior designers during integration?.
integration growing beyond service architect.	Because of integration what are growing beyond services of architects?.
construction project suffer.	What can construction projects suffer from?.
underbid.	What is an underbid?.
cash flow problem exist.	When do cash flow problems exist?.
financial issue notoriously prevalent construction field.	What financial issue is notoriously prevalent in the construction field?.
contingency plan suffer.	What can a contingency plan suffer from?.
issue common financial planning field.	What issue is common in the financial planning field?.
one reason labour problem happens can't funded.	What is one reason a labour problem happens and can't be funded?.
guarantee solid cash flow place project assure completion.	What guarantees a solid cash flow is in place before a project to assure its completion?.
describes builder ask adequate safeguard.	What describes when a builder doesn't ask for adequate safeguards?.
likely participant creating overall plan financial management building construction project.	Who are likely participants in creating an overall plan for the financial management of the building construction project?.
presence highly likely even small project.	The presence of who is highly likely even in small projects?.
study expected monetary flow life project monitor payouts throughout process.	Who studies the expected monetary flow over the life of the project and to monitor the payouts throughout the process?.
applies expertise relate work material involved proper valuation.	Who applies expertise to relate the work and materials involved to a proper valuation?.
cost overrun government project occurred contractor.	Cost overruns with government projects have occurred when the contractor did what?.
mortgage banker study regarding project.	What do mortgage bankers study regarding the project?.
eliminated equity property.	What is eliminated after the equity in the property?.
proper valuation happened government project owner.	Proper valuations happened in a government project because of what by the owner?.
who's presence likely initial bid.	Who's presence is likely in the initial bid?.
obvious source cost engineer.	What is an obvious source for cost engineers?.
must project adhere.	What must a project adhere to?.
constructing project fails adhere code benefit.	Constructing a project that fails to adhere to codes does not benefit whom?.
malum se consideration.	What is malum in se considerations?.
malum prohibitum consideration.	What are malum prohibitum considerations?.
may seek change exemption law governs land building built.	Who may seek changes or exemptions in the law that governs the land where the building will be built?.
must attorney adhere.	What must an attorney adhere to?.
benefit project follow residential district.	Who doesn't benefit when a project doesn't follow a residential district?.
exemption come prevent bad thing.	What do exemptions come from that prevent bad things?.
one way attorney try get business district changed.	What is one way an attorney tries to get a business district changed?.
custom expectation affect building built.	What does a custom or expectation do to affect a building before its built?.
complex net contract legal obligation.	What is a complex net of contracts and other legal obligations?.
exchange set obligation two party.	What is the exchange of a set of obligations between two or more parties?.
time element construction mean.	What does the time element in construction mean?.
contract must designed ensure.	Contracts must be designed to ensure what?.
lead confusion collapse.	What leads to confusion and collapse?.
net project legal exchange.	What is a net of projects and other legal exchanges?.
time element construction two party.	What is the time element in construction between two or more parties?.
side agrees lot little happens cost.	When there is a side that agrees to a lot for a little what happens to the cost?.
must expectation formed keep cost.	How must expectations be formed to keep costs down?.
bad time element lead.	What do bad time elements lead to?.
growing number new form procurement involves.	A growing number of new forms of procurement involves what?.
ppp.	What is PPP?.
ppp also known.	What is a PPP also known as?.
focus ameliorate many problem arise often highly competitive adversarial practice within construction industry..	Focus on what is to ameliorate the many problems that arise from the often highly competitive and adversarial practices within the construction industry..
focus form procurement try prevent.	What does the focus on forms of procurement try to prevent?.
relationship finance initiative involve.	What relationship do finance initiatives involve?.
emphasis private finance initiative.	Who is the emphasis on when there is a private finance initiative?.
example adversarial practice involve partnering.	What is an example of adversarial practices that involve partnering?.
form procurement happen within construction industry.	What forms of procurement happen within the construction industry?.
common construction procurement, act project coordinator.	In the most common construction procurement, who acts as the project coordinator?.
whose role design works, prepare specification produce construction drawings, administer contract, tender works, manage work inception completion.	Whose role is to design the works, prepare the specifications and produce construction drawings, administer the contract, tender the works, and manage the works from inception to completion.
direct contractual link.	There are direct contractual links between who?.
subcontractor direct contractual relationship.	Any subcontractor has a direct contractual relationship with who?.
procedure continues.	The procedure continues until what?.
continues building well established recognized.	What continues until the building is well established and recognized?.
common construction procurement, main contractor act.	With common construction procurement, what does the main contractor act as?.
three thing role main contractor.	What are three things the role of the main contractor is?.
client subcontractor linked.	How are the client and subcontractor linked?.
relationship architect subcontractor.	What is the relationship between the architect and the subcontractor?.
produce list requirement project, giving overall view project's goal.	Who produces a list of requirements for a project, giving an overall view of the project's goals?.
present different idea accomplish goal.	Who presents different ideas about how to accomplish goals?.
selects hire best idea appropriate contractor.	Who selects and hires the best ideas and appropriate contractors?.
usually working together.	Who is usually working together?.
happens build phase 1.	What happens as they build phase 1?.
contractor produce let everyone see project's goal.	What does the contractor produce to let everyone see the project's goals?.
owner produce show attain goal.	What does the owner produce to show how to attain the goals?.
hire contractor, d&b contractor also project.	Before they hire a contractor, what do the D&B contractors also do about a project?.
usually hired design-bid-build contract.	Who is usually hired for a design-bid-build contract?.
happens phase 2 contract.	What happens in a phase 2 contract?.
required verify existing utility line marked.	Who is required to verify and have existing utility lines marked?.
existing utility line marked lessens likelihood.	Having existing utility lines marked lessens the likelihood of what?.
existing facility.	What are some existing facilities?.
inspects building periodically ensure construction adheres approved plan local building code.	Who inspects the building periodically to ensure that the construction adheres to the approved plans and the local building code?.
issued construction complete final inspection passed.	What is issued once construction is complete and a final inspection has been passed?.
happens foundation dug final inspection passed.	What happens before the foundation is dug and when a final inspection is passed?.
building inspector utility line.	What do building inspectors do about utility lines?.
digging foundation prevent damage.	What does digging a foundation prevent damage to?.
contractor look ensure building construction.	What do contractors look to ensure during building construction?.
contractor inspect building construction.	What do contractors inspect during building construction?.
annual construction industry revenue 2014.	What is the annual construction industry revenue in 2014?.
much revenue private.	How much revenue is private?.
many firm existing 2005.	How many firms were existing in 2005?.
average contractor hired many employee.	The average contractor hired how many employees?.
many woman employed construction 2011.	How many women were employed in construction in 2011?.
unemployment rate 2011.	What was the unemployment rate as of 2011?.
according 1 million contractor annual revenue 2014.	According to 1 million contractors  what was the annual revenue in 2014?.
2005 many employee employed government.	In 2005 how many employees were employed by the government?.
many firm 2011.	How many firms were there in 2011?.
u many contractor employed construction 2011.	In the US how many contractors were employed in construction as of 2011?.
average construction salary middle east.	What is the average construction salary in the Middle East?.
average construction salary uk.	What is the average construction salary in the UK?.
worker made $100,000.	Where have some workers made more than $100,000?.
2010 average earning professional show.	In 2010 what did the average earning for a professional show?.
construction worker 14 year experience earn middle east.	What do construction workers with 14 years of experience earn in the Middle East?.
architect us/canada earn yearly.	What to architects in the US/Canada earn yearly?.
job type level experience show result.	What do job types and levels of experience show in the results?.
due average earning professional.	What is not due to the average earning for a professional?.
one dangerous occupation world.	What is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world?.
common cause injury site.	What is the most common cause of injury on site?.
major fatality cause.	What are other major fatality causes?.
curtail risk occupational injury construction industry.	What can curtail the risk of occupational injuries in the construction industry?.
one common occupation world.	What is one of the most common occupations in the world?.
eu 2009, fatal injury rate among construction worker.	In the EU in 2009, what was the fatal injury rate among construction workers?.
one thing prevent non-fatal injury.	What is one thing that can prevent non-fatal injuries?.
procedure lower injury rate among construction worker eu.	What procedures can lower the injury rate among construction workers in the EU?.
common cause fatality dangerous occupation world.	What are other common causes of fatalities in dangerous occupations in the world?.
along non-governmental nonstate schools, another name private school.	Along with non-governmental and nonstate schools, what is another name for private schools?.
along sport art, type talent scholarship.	Along with sport and art, what is a type of talent scholarship?.
rather taxation, private school largely funded.	Rather than taxation, what are private schools largely funded by?.
right private school public school.	What right do private schools have that public schools don't?.
another name public school.	What is another name for a public school?.
kind taxation fund private school.	What kind of taxation funds private schools?.
help student get scholarship public school.	What can help a student get a scholarship for a public school?.
two reason student would able get scholarship public school.	What are two reasons a student would be able to get a scholarship for a public school?.
public school allowed retain talented student.	What are public schools allowed to do to retain talented students?.
yearly cost notable prep school new england.	What is the yearly cost of some notable prep schools in New England?.
private school charge tuition called.	What are private schools that charge no tuition called?.
along canada united kingdom, country generally refer university private school.	Along with Canada and the United Kingdom, what country generally doesn't refer to universities as private schools?.
region use term 'private schools' refer university.	What region does use the term 'private schools' to refer to universities?.
much cost yearly go uk university.	How much does it cost yearly to go to a UK university?.
term private school restricted u.	What is the term private school restricted to in the US?.
term private school never used u.	When is the term private school never used in the US?.
school called charge tuition austraila.	What are schools called that don't charge tuition in Austraila?.
term uk, australia canada always use referring university.	What term does the UK, Australia and Canada always use when referring to universities?.
another term year 12 education.	What is another term for year 12 of education?.
another term used year 13.	What is another term used for year 13?.
another term university-preparatory school.	What is another term for university-preparatory schools?.
along location, endowment willingness parent pay, factor influence private school tuition.	Along with location, endowment and the willingness of parents to pay, what factor influences private school tuition?.
receives higher salary private school charge higher tuition.	Who receives higher salaries at private schools that charge higher tuition?.
another term used library.	What is another term used for library?.
another term used science lab.	What is  another term used for science lab?.
tuititon used military academy.	What is the tuititon used for at military academies?.
ameneties available enrolled military academy.	What ameneties are available when you are enrolled at a military academy?.
religion's school term 'parochial schools' generally refer.	What religion's schools does the term 'parochial schools' generally refer to?.
along muslims, jew protestant christians, religious group notably operates private school.	Along with Muslims, Jews and Protestant Christians, what religious group notably operates private schools?.
type education sometimes present religious school addition secular curriculum.	What type of education is sometimes present at religious schools in addition to the secular curriculum?.
category school put maintain line academic religion.	What category are schools put into that maintain a line between academics and religion?.
roman catholic school teach.	What do all Roman Catholic schools teach?.
roman catholic school founded.	Why were Roman Catholic schools founded?.
method muslim run school use curriculum.	What method do Muslim run schools use in their curriculum?.
power available australian private school generally present public school.	What power is available to Australian private schools but generally not present in public schools?.
example article uniform clothing typically present australian private school.	What is an example of an article of uniform clothing typically present in Australian private schools?.
comparison price australian private school versus public.	What is the comparison in price between Australian private schools versus public?.
kind status come going public school australia.	What kind of status comes with going to a public school in Australia?.
well teacher paid public school australia.	How well are teachers paid in public schools in Australia?.
kind education offered public school australia.	What kind of education is offered in public schools in Australia?.
tool use public school maintain discipline.	What tool do they use in public school to maintain discipline?.
part uniform must wear go public school australia.	What part of a uniform must you wear if you go to public school in Australia?.
along anglican church uniting church, religious denomination operates private school australia.	Along with the Anglican Church and Uniting Church, what religious denomination operates private schools in Australia?.
denomination operates st joseph's college.	What denomination operates St Joseph's College?.
st aloysius' college located.	Where is St Aloysius' College located?.
attends loreto normanhurst.	Who attends Loreto Normanhurst?.
denomination insists student must also member founding church.	What denomination insists that students must also be a member of the founding church?.
category catholic school fall.	What category do all Catholic schools fall into?.
st. gregory's college located.	Where is St. Gregory's College located?.
three church college sydney.	What three churches have colleges in Sydney?.
grammar school insist student order attend.	What do all grammar schools insist their students have in order to attend?.
article grundgesetz grant right make private school.	What article of the Grundgesetz grants the right to make private schools?.
prospect event compelled protection german private school.	The prospect of what event compelled the protection of German private schools?.
percentage german student attended private school 2008.	What percentage of German students attended private schools in 2008?.
percentage german attending private high school 2008.	What was the percentage of Germans attending private high schools in 2008?.
1992, percentage east german student attended private school.	In 1992, what percentage of East German students attended private schools?.
article give gleichschaltung right create private school.	In what article does it give Gleichschaltung the right to create private schools?.
right create private school taken away country.	When can the right to create private schools be taken away in other countries?.
protection private school implemented 1992.	Why was the protection of private schools implemented in 1992?.
percentage student grundgesetz attended private school 2008.	What percentage of students in Grundgesetz attended private schools in 2008?.
percentage student attended private school grundgesetz 1992.	What percentage of students attended private schools in Grundgesetz in 1992?.
german term segregating student based parents' wealth.	What is the German term for segregating students based on their parents' wealth?.
german call private school.	What do Germans call private schools?.
level tuition german private school compare private school western european country.	How does the level of tuition in German private schools compare to private schools in other Western European countries?.
run sonderungsverbot.	Who runs the Sonderungsverbot?.
kind school sonderungsverbot.	What kind of school is a Sonderungsverbot?.
kind diploma given graduating sonderungsverbot.	What kind of diploma is given when graduating from a Sonderungsverbot?.
sonderungsverbot trying operate without regulation.	What do Sonderungsverbot not have when trying to operate without regulation?.
kind tuition charged enroll sonderungsverbot.	What kind of tuition is charged if you enroll in a Sonderungsverbot?.
private secondary school germany called.	What are private secondary schools in Germany called?.
type school ergänzungsschulen.	What types of schools are most ergänzungsschulen?.
ergänzungsschulen funded.	How are ergänzungsschulen funded?.
along private individual organizations, group sometimes run ergänzungsschulen.	Along with private individuals and organizations, what groups sometimes runs ergänzungsschulen?.
public school called germany.	What are public schools called in Germany?.
public school part.	What are most public schools not a part of?.
public school operate outside germany.	What do public schools operate outside of in Germany?.
public school funded.	How are public schools funded?.
group rarely run public school.	What group will rarely run a public school?.
term indian private school.	What is the term for an Indian private school?.
along cisce nenbse, notable examination board multiple indian state.	Along with the CISCE and NENBSE, what is a notable Examination Board in multiple Indian states?.
many examination board exist india.	How many Examination Boards exist in India?.
body india provides policy direction school.	What body in India provides policy directions to schools?.
government school also called india.	What are government schools also called in India?.
two category government school put india.	What two categories can a government school be put into in India?.
cbse cisce power govern.	What do the CBSE and the CISCe both have the power to govern?.
many independent school india.	How many independent schools are in India?.
certificate legislature conduct examination.	For what certificate does the legislature conduct examinations?.
along trusts, non-profits allowed run school india.	Along with trusts, what other non-profits are allowed to run schools in India?.
country illiterate adult world.	What country has the most illiterate adults in the world?.
full name aser.	What is the full name of the ASER?.
purpose aser.	What is the purpose of the ASER?.
private schools, language class taught.	In private schools, what language are classes taught in?.
legally teach english india.	Who can legally teach English in India?.
government school able teach english.	What do government schools have to do to be able to teach English?.
happening number government school rural india.	What is happening to the number of government schools in rural India?.
aser report show people feel private school.	What did the ASER report show about how people feel about private schools?.
poor academic achievement lead according critic.	What does poor academic achievement lead to according to critics?.
irish term private school.	What is the Irish term for private schools?.
private school ireland differ.	How do private schools in Ireland differ from most?.
typical annual cost irish private school.	What is the typical annual cost for an Irish private school?.
along congregation christian brothers, notable religious group run fee-paying school ireland.	Along with the Congregation of Christian Brothers, what is a notable religious group that runs fee-paying schools in Ireland?.
might fee attend irish boarding school rise.	What might the fees to attend an Irish boarding school rise to?.
irish term school fee.	What is the Irish term for school fees?.
private school rest world differ ireland.	How do private schools in the rest of the world differ from Ireland?.
school fee rest world compared ireland.	How are school fees in the rest of the world compared to Ireland?.
certificate must private school worldwide work towards.	What certificates must private schools worldwide work towards?.
average private school fee worldwide.	What is the average private school fee worldwide?.
year malaysia receive independence.	In what year did Malaysia receive its independence?.
language used chinese primary school malaysia.	What language is used in Chinese primary schools in Malaysia?.
language used chinese secondary school malaysia.	What language is used in Chinese secondary schools in Malaysia?.
name post-independence government school system malaysia.	What is the name of the post-independence government school system in Malaysia?.
result compromise, many chinese school became national type school.	As a result of a compromise, about how many Chinese schools became National Type schools?.
year china institute english-medium school.	In what year did China institute English-medium schools?.
many people protested school assimilation program malaysia.	How many people protested the school assimilation program in Malaysia?.
happened school chinese independence 1957.	What happened to schools after Chinese independence in 1957?.
type school would china compromise chinese independence.	What type of schools would they have in China as a compromise after Chinese independence?.
land belong china school compromise.	Who did the lands belong to in China after the school compromise?.
term school receive government assistance.	What is a term for schools that receive government assistance?.
'un-aided' school different 'aided' school.	How are 'un-aided' schools different from 'aided' schools?.
galaxy public school located.	Where is Galaxy Public School located?.
nepalese private schools, primary language instruction.	In Nepalese private schools, what is the primary language of instruction?.
addition english, language also often taught nepalese private school.	In addition to English, what language is also often taught in Nepalese private schools?.
type familiy sends child preschool.	What type of familiy sends their children to preschool?.
standard living family kathmandu.	What is the standard of living for most families in Kathmandu?.
name typically associated preschool.	What name is typically associated with preschool?.
boarding school teach english called.	What are boarding schools that teach English called?.
group fully fund preschool.	What group fully funds preschool?.
many private school existed new zealand april 2014.	How many private schools existed in New Zealand in April 2014?.
april 2014, many new zealand student attended private school.	In April 2014, how many New Zealand students attended private schools?.
percentage new zealand student attended private school april 2014.	What percentage of New Zealand students attended private schools in April 2014?.
religion's school integrated new zealand public school 1979 1984.	What religion's schools were integrated into New Zealand public schools between 1979 and 1984?.
city, along hamilton, wellington christchurch, one largest new zealand.	What city, along with Hamilton, Wellington and Christchurch, is one of the largest in New Zealand?.
1970, many private school new zealand.	As of 1970, how many private schools were in New Zealand?.
many private school student 1979.	How many private school students were there in 1979?.
much student population went private school 1984.	How much of the student population went to private schools in 1984?.
happened private school number since 2014.	What has happened to private school numbers since 2014?.
private school decline since 2014.	Why have private schools been in decline since 2014?.
denomination diocesan school girl auckland affiliated.	What denomination is the Diocesan School for Girls in Auckland affiliated with?.
samuel marsden collegiate school located.	Where is Samuel Marsden Collegiate School located?.
denomination associated saint kentigern college.	What denomination is associated with Saint Kentigern College?.
city rangi ruru girls' school.	In what city is Rangi Ruru Girls' School?.
group operates st dominic's college wanganui.	What group operates St Dominic's College in Wanganui?.
st andrew's college run.	How is St Andrew's College run?.
operated academic college group wanganui.	What is operated by Academic Colleges Group in Wanganui?.
catholic society wanganui affiliated academic college group.	What Catholic society in Wanganui is affiliated with Academic Colleges Group?.
denomination school run academic college group.	What denomination are the schools run by Academic Colleges Group?.
many affiliate connected acg new zealand international college.	How many affiliates are connected to the ACG New Zealand International College?.
percentage filipino primary school student private school.	What percentage of Filipino primary school students are in private schools?.
philippines, percentage secondary school student attend private school.	In the Philippines, what percentage of secondary school students attend private schools?.
percentage filipino tertiary education take place private school.	What percentage of Filipino tertiary education takes place in private schools?.
month year revised manual regulation private school released.	In what month and year was the revised Manual of Regulations for Private Schools released?.
along english mathematics, subject replaced value education fourth year student.	Along with English and mathematics, what subject replaced values education for fourth year students?.
percentage student enroll public primary school philippine.	What percentage of students enroll in public primary school in the Philippines?.
lower public school rather private one.	What is lower in public schools rather than private ones?.
government regulation given public school recently.	What have government regulations given public schools recently?.
philippine start teaching english primary level public school.	When did the Philippines start teaching English at the primary level in public school?.
name scheme provides tuition fee assistance student due excess enrollment.	What is the name of the scheme that provides tuition and fee assistance to students due to excess enrollment?.
stipend student enrolled priority course receive.	What stipend do students enrolled in priority courses receive?.
aid available underprivileged student seeking attend private university.	What aid is available to underprivileged students seeking to attend a private university?.
would student turned away non-degree programme.	Why would students be turned away from non-degree programmes?.
tuition fee suppliment help high school student.	How does The Tuition Fee Suppliment help high school students?.
private education student financial assistance help current high school student turned away.	What does The Private Education Student Financial Assistance help current high school students who are turned away do?.
program provides financial assistance tuition fee college technical education.	What program provides financial assistance for tuition and fees for a college or technical education?.
government provide student turned away priority course.	What does the government provide for students turned away from priority courses?.
south african law recognized two type school.	What South African law recognized two types of schools?.
year south african school act passed.	In what year was the South African Schools Act passed?.
along public schools, type school recognized south african school act.	Along with public schools, what type of school was recognized under the South African Schools Act?.
south africa, along privately governed schools, school classified independent.	In South Africa, along with privately governed schools, what schools are classified as independent?.
century missionary notably establish church school south africa.	In what century did missionaries notably establish church schools in South Africa?.
century apartheid abolished.	In what century was apartheid abolished?.
missionary cause become law 1996.	What did missionaries cause to become law in 1996?.
africa becoming independent change law missionary coming africa.	How did Africa becoming independent change the laws about missionaries coming to Africa?.
century south africa established country.	In what century was South Africa established as a country?.
happened public education sector managed government.	What has happened to the public education sector when managed by the government?.
apartheid, type school referred "model c" school.	After apartheid, what types of schools are referred to as "Model C" schools?.
academic result former model c school compare school.	How do academic results in former Model C schools compare to other schools?.
fee former model c school compare school.	How do the fees at former Model C schools compare to those at other schools?.
school option parent minority child given convert.	What school option were parents of minority children given to convert to?.
abolished apartheid era.	What was abolished during the apartheid era?.
term used school accept black child.	What term is used for schools who accept only black children?.
kind acedemic result school accept black child produce.	What kind of acedemic results do schools that only accept black children produce?.
white child pay go school.	What do only white children have to pay when they go to school?.
2008, percentage swedish student attended private school.	As of 2008, about what percentage of Swedish students attended private schools?.
many student attend kunskapsskolan school.	About many students attend Kunskapsskolan schools?.
many people work kunskapsskolan school.	How many people work for Kunskapsskolan schools?.
english translation kunskapsskolan.	What is the English translation of Kunskapsskolan?.
school model sweden notable.	What school model is Sweden notable for?.
many swedish student enrolled public school 2008.	How many Swedish students were enrolled in public school in 2008?.
many people worked barack obama sweden.	How many people have worked with Barack Obama who are from Sweden?.
swedish word school voucher.	What is the Swedish word for school voucher?.
opportunity barack obama support swedish child.	What opportunity did Barack Obama support for Swedish children?.
many school voucher issued sweden 2008.	How many school vouchers were issued by Sweden in 2008?.
age student united kingdom attend preparatory school.	Up to what age do students in the United Kingdom attend preparatory schools?.
school preparatory school prepare british child attend.	What schools do preparatory schools prepare British children to attend?.
percentage british child educated gsce level fee-paying school.	What percentage of British children are educated at GSCE level in fee-paying schools?.
a-level, percentage british student attend fee-paying school.	At A-level, what percentage of British students attend fee-paying schools?.
upper range annual fee non-boarding student british public school.	What is the upper range of annual fees for non-boarding students in British public schools?.
preparatory school scotland prepare enter public school.	Who do preparatory schools in Scotland prepare to enter public schools?.
percentage child educated scotland independent school.	What percentage of children educated in Scotland are at independent schools?.
level 13% child scottish independent school.	At what level are 13% of children in Scottish independent schools?.
type school becoming le common scotland.	What type of school is becoming less common in Scotland?.
highest range student would pay boarding scottish school.	What is the highest range a student would pay when boarding  in a Scottish school?.
court case desegregated school united state.	What court case desegregated schools in the United States?.
derogatory term christian academy arose wake school desegregation.	What is a derogatory term for the Christian academies that arose in the wake of school desegregation?.
part united state many student migrate christian academy desegregation period.	In what part of the United States did many students migrate to Christian academies during the desegregation period?.
primary race student attending christian academy brown decision.	What was the primary race of students attending Christian academies after the Brown decision?.
school desegregation united state led increased number student ethnicity public school.	School desegregation in the United States led to an increased number of students of what ethnicity in public schools?.
court case desegregated school 1970.	What court case desegregated schools in 1970?.
quickly christian academy supposed segregated.	How quickly were Christian academies supposed to be segregated?.
organized local family supreme court case went court.	What was organized by local families before the Supreme Court case went to court?.
kind curriculum public school focus white student.	What kind of curriculum did public schools focus on for white students?.
number race student increased public school 1954.	Numbers of what race of students increased in public schools before 1954?.
along tuition, scholarships, vouchers, donation grants, funding private school come.	Along with tuition, scholarships, vouchers, donations and grants, where does funding for private schools come from?.
amendment united state constitution governs government funding religious school.	What amendment to the United States Constitution governs government funding of religious schools?.
state constitutional amendment make reference government funding religious school.	What state constitutional amendments make reference to the government funding religious schools?.
granting status would allow private non-religious school u receive public fund.	Granting what status would allow private non-religious schools in the US to receive public funds?.
body would determine funding course content forbidden.	What body would determine that funding for course content is forbidden?.
course content funding subject.	What is course content funding subject to?.
would course content funding restricted court.	Why would course content funding be restricted by the courts?.
interpreted individual determine funding course content forbidden.	What can be interpreted by individuals to determine if funding for course content is forbidden?.
course content provided private school.	How is course content provided to a private school?.
first u state compulsory education.	What was the first US state to have compulsory education?.
year massachusetts first require child educated school.	In what year did Massachusetts first require children to be educated in schools?.
year wisconsin v. yoder decided supreme court.	In what year was Wisconsin v. Yoder decided at the Supreme Court?.
citation pierce v. society sister case.	What is the citation for the Pierce v. Society of Sisters case?.
opposing party runyon case.	Who was the opposing party in the Runyon case?.
became compulsory massachusetts 1976.	What became compulsory in Massachusetts in 1976?.
first state set educational standard.	What was the first state to have set educational standards?.
educator support educational choice long happens.	Educators support educational choice as long as what happens?.
part case wisconsin 1976.	Who was part of the case with Wisconsin in 1976?.
person involved case runyon 1972.	What other person was involved in the case with Runyon in 1972?.
much new york city day school cost annually 2012.	About how much did a New York City day school cost annually in 2012?.
would parent pay send child boarding school 2012.	What would a parent have to pay to send their child to a boarding school in 2012?.
notable private school endowment several hundred million dollar.	What notable private school has an endowment of several hundred million dollars?.
addition endowment tuition, boarding school cover operating cost.	In addition to endowments and tuition, how do boarding schools cover their operating costs?.
much groton school charge per student tuition 2012.	How much did the Groton School charge per student for tuition in 2012?.
student groton school come.	Where do most students at the Groton School come from?.
many applicant groton school year.	How many applicants does the Groton School have each year?.
city groton school located.	In what city is the Groton School located?.
operating expense groton school 2012.	What were the operating expenses of the Groton School in 2012?.
individual school named.	What individual is the school named after?.
undergraduate program become coeducational.	When did the undergraduate program become coeducational?.
name leader great depression world war ii.	What was the name of the leader through the Great Depression and World War II?.
organization harvard found 1900.	What organization did Harvard found in 1900?.
president university transformed modern research university.	What president of the university transformed it into a modern research university?.
distinction radcliffe college among university.	What distinction does Radcliffe College have among universities?.
went radcliffe trained student early day.	Who went to Radcliffe and was trained there as students in its early days?.
radcliffe's curriculum secularized.	When was Radcliffe's curriculum secularized?.
radcliffe transformed 19th century.	What had Radcliffe been transformed into by the 19th century?.
president radcliffe 1869-1909.	Who was President of Radcliffe from 1869-1909?.
world largest academic private library system.	What is the worlds largest academic and private library system?.
many individual library make main school library.	How many individual libraries make up the main school library?.
many volume contained library.	How many volumes are contained in the library?.
many u president alumnus school.	How many US presidents are alumni of the school?.
many nobel laureate among school alumnus.	How many Nobel Laureates are among the school alumni?.
cost living near harvard.	What is the cost of living near Harvard?.
tourist go visit cambridge.	Where can tourists go when they visit Cambridge?.
many public library cambridge.	How many public libraries are there in Cambridge?.
many u president campaigned cambridge.	How many US Presidents once campaigned in Cambridge?.
many billionaire living cambridge.	How many billionaires are now living in Cambridge?.
major u city university located.	What is the major US city that the is the university located?.
size school's endowment.	What is the size of the school's endowment?.
river located vicinity school.	What river is located in the vicinity of the school?.
many academic unit make school.	How many academic units make up the school?.
name area main campus centered cambridge.	What is the name of the area that the main campus is centered in Cambridge?.
much cost build harvard stadium.	How much did it cost to build Harvard Stadium?.
many academic unit make radcliffe.	How many academic units make up Radcliffe?.
large allston neighborhood boston.	How large is the Allston neighborhood in Boston?.
longwood medical area located.	Where is the Longwood Medical area located?.
many sport played athletics facilites.	How many sports are played at the athletics facilites?.
year school formed.	In what year was the school formed?.
organization arranged founding school.	What organization arranged to founding of school?.
year north america's first printing press started.	What year was North America's first printing press started?.
year school renamed harvard college.	In what year was the school renamed as Harvard College?.
year charter granted harvard corporation.	In what year was the charter granted for Harvard Corporation?.
ship john london called.	What was the ship of John of London called?.
court massachusetts bay colony vote john harvard 1650.	What did the Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony vote for John Harvard to have in 1650?.
founded cambridge 1650.	Who founded Cambridge in 1650?.
john london come live cambridge.	When did John of London come to live in Cambridge?.
university john london alum.	What university was John of London an alum of?.
minister faith trained university early year.	Ministers of what faith were trained by the university in early years?.
higher learning model school designed.	After what higher learning model was the school designed?.
school officially associated denomination.	Was the school officially associated with any denomination?.
group trained cambridge 1643.	What group was trained at Cambridge in 1643?.
year cambridge founded.	In what year was Cambridge founded?.
purpose cambridge founded 1643.	What was the purpose of Cambridge when it was founded in 1643?.
profession many graduate cambridge become 1643.	What profession did many graduates of Cambridge become in 1643?.
church graduate cambridge affiliated 1643.	What churches were the graduates of Cambridge affiliated with after 1643?.
year harvard president joseph willard die.	In what year did Harvard President Joseph Willard die?.
liberal succeeded joseph willard president.	What liberal succeeded Joseph Willard as president?.
year henry ware elected chair.	In what year was Henry Ware elected to chair?.
year henry ware die.	In what year did Henry Ware die?.
happened henry ware samuel webber died.	What happened after Henry Ware and Samuel Webber died?.
year david tappan elected chair.	In what year was David Tappan elected to the chair?.
calvinist party traditional idea come dominate university.	When did Calvinist parties and traditional ideas come to dominate universities?.
denomination hollis professor divinity connected.	What denomination was the Hollis Professor of Divinity connected to?.
1846 who's natural history lecture acclaimed new york harvard.	in 1846 who's natural history lectures were acclaimed in New York and Harvard?.
agassiz's approach science combined observation.	Agassiz's approach to science combined observation and what?.
common sense realism scottish philosopher agassiz incorporate dual view knowedge.	Common Sense Realism of what Scottish philosophers did Agassiz incorporate in his dual view of knowedge?.
writing plato acclaimed 1846.	Where were the writings of Plato acclaimed in 1846?.
plato's approach considered.	What was Plato's approach considered?.
plato's perspective science combine.	What did Plato's perspective on science combine?.
assumption behind plato's writing.	What was the assumption behind Plato's writings?.
evidence plato use explain life-forms.	What evidence did Plato use to explain life-forms?.
president eliminated christian position curriculum.	What president eliminated the Christian position in the curriculum?.
conviction motivated eliot move towards secularization.	What conviction motivated Eliot to move towards secularization?.
movement eliot followed derived.	From whom were the movement that Eliot followed derived?.
year william ellery channing president harvard.	During what years was William Ellery Channing President of Harvard?.
channing eliminated christianity former position curriculum allowed instead.	When Channing eliminated Christianity from its former position in the curriculum what was allowed instead?.
channing crucial figure achieve u university.	Channing was the most crucial figure to achieve what in US universities?.
idea motivated channing remove christianity dominant college curriculum.	What ideas motivated Channing to remove Christianity as dominant in college curriculum?.
christianity u curriculum focus changed.	What did Christianity in US curriculum focus on before it was changed?.
lead school back leading research institution 2oth century.	Who lead the school back to leading research institution in 2oth century?.
school able bring aboard best talented student.	How was the school able to bring aboard the best talented students?.
year 20th century, harvard release important document education america.	In what year of 20th century, did Harvard release an important document about education in America?.
main goal attracting wealthy harvard.	Who had a main goal of attracting the wealthy to Harvard?.
would guarantee harvard attracted wealthy student.	What would it guarantee for Harvard if they attracted wealthy students?.
college considered vehicle wealthy 1945.	What was college considered a vehicle of for the wealthy in 1945?.
conant develop attract wealthy student school 1933.	What did Conant develop to attract wealthy students to the school in 1933?.
one thing wealthy student needed first came harvard 1945.	What is one thing that wealthy students needed when they first came to Harvard in 1945?.
ratio men woman harvard/radcliffe.	What was the ratio of men to women at Harvard/Radcliffe?.
year harvard radcliffe admission merge.	In what year did Harvard and Radcliffe admissions merge?.
trend female student population 1970s deyond.	What was the trend of female student population from 1970s and deyond?.
period woman banned admitted radcliffe.	During what period were women not banned from being admitted to Radcliffe?.
college founded world war ii.	What college was founded during World War II?.
happened radcliffe's graduate school wwii.	What happened to Radcliffe's graduate schools during WWII?.
period radcliffe become prominent university.	During what period did Radcliffe become prominent as a university?.
many campus affiliated harvard existed 1977.	How many campuses affiliated with Harvard existed in 1977?.
far state house downtown boston harvard yard.	How far from state house in downtown Boston is Harvard Yard?.
many residential dorm house upper class, sophomore, jr, sr student.	How many residential dorms house upper class, sophomore, Jr, and Sr students?.
along geographic feature nine residential house located.	Along what geographic feature are nine residential houses located?.
far yard quad located.	How far from the Yard is the Quad located?.
many acre land state house situated.	How many acres of land is the State House situated on?.
neighborhood edward harkness formerly.	What neighborhood is Edward Harkness formerly from?.
formerly housed sever hall.	Who were formerly housed at Sever Hall?.
radcliffe college student stop residing sever hall.	Why did Radcliffe College students stop residing at Sever Hall?.
office edward harkness located.	Where is the office of Edward Harkness located?.
harvard stadium located.	Where is Harvard stadium located?.
name bridge join part campus charles river.	What is the name of the bridge that joins parts of the campus of the Charles River?.
harvard medical, dental school public health located.	Where are the Harvard medical, Dental and school of Public Health located?.
name bridge longwood medical academic area.	What is the name of the bridge over the Longwood Medical and Academic area?.
wide area charles river run.	How wide of an area does the Charles River run through?.
many mile person walk cross john w. week bridge.	How many miles will a person walk when they cross the John W. Weeks Bridge?.
circumference harvard stadium.	What is the circumference of Harvard Stadium?.
medical school located allston.	What medical school is located in Allston?.
much land school allston cambridge.	How much more land does the school own in Allston than Cambridge?.
proposal connect campus.	What are some proposals to connect campuses?.
additional benefit surrounding community expansion.	What additional benefits are there to surrounding community of expansion?.
cambridge purchased allston.	What has Cambridge purchased in Allston?.
cambridge purchased land allston.	Why has Cambridge purchased land in Allston?.
much land cambridge allston.	How much land does Cambridge own in Allston?.
cambridge say expansion benefit.	Who does Cambridge say the expansion will benefit?.
infrastructure improved storrow drive.	What infrastructure will be improved in Storrow Drive?.
total number professors, instructors, lecturer harvard.	What is the total number of professors, instructors, and lecturers at Harvard?.
enrollment undergraduate harvard.	What is the enrollment of undergraduates at Harvard?.
many graduate student harvard.	How many graduate students does Harvard have?.
color crimson adopted harvard official color.	When was the color crimson adopted at Harvard as official color?.
year earliest trace color crimson harvard.	What year is the earliest traces of the color Crimson at Harvard?.
harvard crimson publish first issue.	When did The Harvard Crimson publish its first issue?.
many people harvard sponsored regatta 1875.	How many people were at a Harvard sponsored regatta in 1875?.
many people usually go see harvard sport team play year.	How many people usually go to see Harvard sports teams play each year?.
many student charles william eliot teach throughout tenure harvard.	How many students did Charles William Eliot teach throughout his tenure at Harvard?.
eliot handing harvard crimson regatta school 1875.	What did Eliot handing out The Harvard Crimson at a regatta do for the school in 1875?.
harvard endowment total 2011.	What was the Harvard endowment total in 2011?.
great loss suffered financial crisis 2008-09 harvard endowment.	How great were the losses suffered in the the financial crisis of 2008-09 to Harvard endowment?.
project harvard halt due financial crisis.	What project did Harvard halt due to the financial crisis?.
harvard's pell grant reserve.	What are Harvard's Pell grant reserves?.
harvard's total financial aid reserve.	What is Harvard's total financial aid reserves?.
amount harvard cut 2012 financial aid reserve.	What amount did Harvard cut from their 2012 financial aid reserve?.
much forbes donate charity 2009.	How much did Forbes donate to charity in 2009?.
much loss forbes suffer 2008.	How much of a loss did Forbes suffer in 2008?.
forbes halt construction 2008.	What did Forbes halt the construction of in 2008?.
local resident forbes announced budget cut 2011.	What did local residents do when Forbes announced budget cuts in 2011?.
divestment south africa movement.	When was the divestment from South Africa movement? .
south african vice consul harvard student blockade speech.	What South African Vice Consul did Harvard students blockade the speech of? .
much harvard management reduce south africa holding response pressure.	By how much did Harvard management reduce its South Africa holdings in response to pressure?.
year south african vice consul duke kent-brown take office.	In what year did South African Vice Consul Duke Kent-Brown take office?.
erected south africa duke kent-brown protest harvard.	What was erected in South Africa by Duke Kent-Brown to protest Harvard?.
kent-brown interrupt speech harvard.	What did Kent-Brown do to interrupt a speech by Harvard?.
amount money kent-brown invested harvard.	What amount of money did Kent-Brown have invested in Harvard?.
much kent-brown reduce investment harvard.	By how much did Kent-Brown reduce his investment in Harvard?.
applicant admission rate class 2019.	What is the applicant admission rate for class of 2019?.
year harvard end early admission program.	In what year did Harvard end its early admission program?.
harvard end early admission program.	Why did Harvard end its early admission program?.
year early admission program reintroduced.	In what year was an early admission program reintroduced?.
admission early action program characterized.	How is admission to the Early Action program characterized?.
acceptance rate early action program 2019.	What acceptance rate does the Early Action program have for 2019?.
rank early action program among others.	What rank does the Early Action program have among all others?.
carnegie foundation start managing statistic university admission.	When did the Carnegie Foundation start managing statistics for university admissions?.
applicant carnegie foundation want support.	What applicants does the Carnegie Foundation want to have more support for?.
1978 d2008 four year full time undergraduate student required complete many class outside concentration.	Between 1978 an d2008 four year full time undergraduate students were required to complete how many classes outside of their concentration?.
post 2008 undergraduate student required complete many general education class towards degree.	Post 2008 undergraduate students are required to complete how many general education classes towards degree?.
criticism ny time article impact quality education harvard.	What criticism in NY times article that impacts the quality of Education at Harvard?.
many class outside concentration carnegie foundation require 2007.	How many classes outside of their concentration did the Carnegie Foundation require in 2007?.
kind enrollment ethical reasoning program 2007.	What kind of enrollments did the Ethical Reasoning program have in 2007?.
kind focus ethical reasoning program since 2007.	What kind of focus has the Ethical Reasoning program had since 2007?.
since 1978 many course student ethical reasoning program needed take.	Since 1978 how many courses have students in the Ethical Reasoning program needed to take?.
carnegie foundation depend aspect undergraduate education.	Who does the Carnegie Foundation depend on for some aspects of undergraduate education?.
duration harvard academic year.	What is the duration of Harvard Academic year?.
many course must undergraduate maintain full time status.	How many courses must undergraduates maintain for full time status?.
top 4-5% graduating student honored.	What are the top 4-5% graduating students honored with?.
2004 2005 harvard reduced number student earning latin honor 90%.	From 2004 to 2005 Harvard reduced the number of students earning Latin honors from 90% to what?.
basic program also require.	What does a basic program also require?.
percentage student body accepted phi beta kappa honor society year.	What percentage of the student body is accepted to the Phi Beta Kappa honor society each year?.
percentage student body affected grade inflation 2004.	What percentage of the student body was affected by grade inflation in 2004?.
increased harvard's student body 2005.	What increased about Harvard's student body in 2005?.
two honor given frequently 2005.	What two honors were given out more frequently in 2005?.
tuition 2012 - 13 year harvard.	What is tuition for 2012 - 13 year at Harvard? .
total cost attendance 2012-13.	What is the total cost of attendance in 2012-13?.
2007 much student family earning le $60,000 pay school.	After 2007 how much do student from families earning less than $60,000 pay for school?.
2009 total grant awarded harvard.	In 2009 what was the total of Grants awarded from Harvard?.
percentage total financial aid undergraduate harvard form grant.	What percentage of total financial aid for undergraduates from Harvard was in the form of grants?.
family income $38,000 pay tuition 2009.	What did families with incomes below $38,000 pay for tuition in 2009?.
else family income $38,000 required pay 2009.	What else were families with incomes below $38,000 not required to pay for in 2009?.
much student pay total go harvard 2007.	How much did students pay in total to go to Harvard in 2007?.
many student loan apply four year harvard.	How many student loans can you apply for in four years at Harvard?.
many student dorm use harvard 2012.	How many student dorms were there in use at Harvard in 2012?.
center library harvard library system.	What is the center library in the Harvard library system?.
many total volume harvard library system.	How many total volumes are in the Harvard library system?.
3 post popular library undergraduate harvard system.	What are the 3 post popular libraries for undergraduates in the Harvard system?.
america's oldest collection maps, gazettes, atlas housed.	Where are America's oldest collection of maps, gazettes, and atlases housed?.
american library association located.	Where is the American Library Association located?.
many book endorsed american library association.	How many books are endorsed by the American Library Association?.
size lamont library give unique distinction.	What is the size of the Lamont Library that gives it a unique distinction?.
status harvard university archive undergraduate.	What is the status of the Harvard University Archives with undergraduates?.
kind access undergraduate harvard university archive.	What kind of access for undergraduates do the Harvard University Archives have?.
many museum comprise harvard art museum.	How many museums comprise Harvard Art Museums?.
fogg museum art cover.	What does the Fogg Museum of Art cover?.
museum specializes cultural history civilization western hemisphere.	What museum specializes in cultural history and civilizations of the Western Hemisphere?.
former name arthur m. sackler museum.	What is the former name of the Arthur M. Sackler Museum?.
many museum busch-reisinger museum comprise.	How many museums does the Busch-Reisinger Museum comprise?.
designed fogg museum art.	Who designed the Fogg Museum of Art?.
kind french art kept arthur m. sackler museum.	What kind of French art is kept at the Arthur M. Sackler Museum?.
glass flower exhibit included busch-reisinger museum.	What glass flowers exhibit is included in the Busch-Reisinger Museum?.
starting year harvard topped academic ranking world university.	Starting in what year has Harvard topped the Academic Rankings of World Universities?.
beginning year harvard top world reputation ranking.	Beginning in what year was Harvard on top of the World Reputation Rankings?.
according princeton review harvard ranked "dream college" 2013.	According to the Princeton Review where has Harvard ranked as a "Dream College" in 2013.
since year arwu ranked academic performance.	Since what year has the ARWU ranked academic performance?.
year harvard roll new undergraduate program.	During what years did Harvard roll out a new undergraduate program?.
news magazine transitioned exclusively online 2009.	What news magazine transitioned to being exclusively online in 2009?.
princeton review ranked student 2013 informative.	How was The Princeton Review ranked by students in 2013 for being most informative?.
u news world report ranked term ceo position 2011.	How was US News and World Report ranked in terms of CEO positions in 2011?.
many intercollegiate sport harvard compete ncaa division.	How many intercollegiate sports does Harvard compete in NCAA division I.
harvard's intense rival.	What is Harvard's most intense rival?.
time harvard-yale rivalry set aside.	At what time is the Harvard-Yale rivalry set aside?.
many sport yale compete ncaa division ivy league.	How many sports does Yale compete  in in the NCAA Division I Ivy League?.
kind rivalry oxford cambridge.	What kind of rivalry do Oxford and Cambridge have?.
event oxford-cambridge rivalry culminate.	What event does the Oxford-Cambridge rivalry culminate in?.
often oxford cambridge put aside rivalry.	How often do Oxford and Cambridge put aside their rivalry?.
old ncaa division ivy league competition.	How old is the NCAA Division I Ivy League competition?.
first year yale harvard played football.	What was the first year that Yale and Harvard played football?.
year harvard stadium become first ever concrete reinforced stadium country.	In what year did Harvard Stadium become the first ever concrete reinforced stadium in the country?.
year set significant rule change introduced including forward pas.	In what year was a set of significant rule changes introduced including the forward pass?.
school walter camp captain football team.	What school was Walter Camp a captain for the football team?.
event yale 1920.	What event was won by Yale in 1920?.
stadium built 1920.	What stadium was built in 1920?.
yale introduce new era football.	How did Yale introduce a new era in football?.
position walter camp harvard's football team.	What position was Walter Camp on Harvard's football team?.
newly legalized move harvard's football team support 1920.	What newly legalized move did Harvard's football team support in 1920?.
name harvard's basketball facility.	What is the name of Harvard's basketball facility?.
name harvard's primary recreational sport facility.	What is the name of Harvard's primary recreational sports facility?.
many weight room malkin athletic center.	How many weight rooms are in the Malkin Athletic Center.
building olympic athlete train.	At what building do Olympic athletes train?.
lavietes pavillion serve satellite location.	What does the Lavietes Pavillion serve as a satellite location for?.
many story doe lavietes pavillion.	How many stories doe the Lavietes Pavillion have?.
many cardio room lavietes pavillion.	How many cardio rooms are at the Lavietes Pavillion?.
kind swimming pool lavietes pavillion.	What kind of swimming pool is at the Lavietes Pavillion?.
harvard - yale regatta predates "the game" many year.	Harvard - Yale Regatta predates "The Game" by how many years?.
body water harvard - yale regatta held.	In what body of water is the Harvard - Yale Regatta held?.
primary rival harvard crimson hockey team.	Who is the primary rival of the Harvard Crimson hockey team?.
year harvard win intercolleiate sailing association national championship.	In what year did Harvard win an Intercolleiate Sailing Association National Championship?.
state yale located.	In what state is Yale located?.
river located near cornell university.	What river is located near Cornell University?.
yale rowing crew ranked.	How is the Yale rowing crew ranked?.
event cornell win 2003.	What event did Cornell win in 2003?.
month harvard crimson men's ice hockey team play.	In what month does the Harvard Crimson men's ice hockey team play?.
un secretary went harvard.	What UN secretary went to Harvard?.
columbia president went harvard.	What Columbia President went to Harvard?.
costa rican president went harvard.	Who is the Costa Rican President that went to Harvard?.
harvard alumnus palestine prime minister.	What Harvard Alumni was the Palestine Prime Minister?.
venue benjamin netanyahu give speech recently.	At what venue did Benjamin Netanyahu give a speech recently?.
office held george w. bush.	What office was held by George W. Bush?.
office barack obama recently served last term.	In what office has Barack Obama recently served his last term?.
barack obama give last speech 2016.	Where did Barack Obama give his last speech in 2016?.
union antonis samara part.	What Union is Antonis Samaras a part of?.
tv host writer went harvard.	What tv host and writer went to Harvard?.
famous conductor went harvard.	What famous conductor went to Harvard?.
name world renowned cellist former harvard student.	What is the name of world renowned cellist is a former Harvard student?.
famous civil right leader called harvard home.	What famous civil rights leader called Harvard home?.
former host late night conan o'brien.	Who was the former host of Late Night with Conan O'Brien?.
actor starred movie saving private ryan.	What actor starred in the Movie Saving Private Ryan?.
player tampa bay buccaneer.	Who is a player on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers?.
actor starred men black.	What actor starred in The Men in Black?.
directer noah 2014.	Who was the directer of Noah in 2014?.
field medal winning mathematician faculty member harvard.	What Fields Medal winning Mathematician is a faculty member at Harvard?.
prestigious legal scholar faculty member harvard.	What prestigious legal scholars are faculty members at Harvard?.
shakespeare scholar faculty member harvard.	What Shakespeare Scholar is a faculty member at Harvard?.
scientist published "the better angel nature" 2011.	What scientist published "The Better Angels of Our Nature" in 2011?.
chemist nobel prize chemstry 1986.	What chemist won the Nobel prize in Chemstry in 1986?.
author best known book metaphysical club.	What author is best known for his book The Metaphysical Club?.
british citizen stand support liberal democrat.	What British citizen stands with and supports liberal democrats?.
political scientist one founder theory neoliberalism.	What political scientist is one of the founders of the theory of neoliberalism?.
florida city biggest population.	Which Florida city has the biggest population?.
population jacksonville city 2010.	What was the population Jacksonville city as of 2010?.
based population alone, jacksonville's ranking united state.	Based on population alone, what is Jacksonville's ranking in the United States?.
county jacksonville reside.	In which county does Jacksonville reside?.
year consolidation cause jacksonville become part duval county.	What year did consolidation cause Jacksonville to become part of Duval County?.
florida city smallest population.	Which Florida city has a smallest population?.
county jacksonville seat prior 1968.	What County was Jacksonville the seat of prior to 1968?.
year jacksonville consolidate davis county.	What year did Jacksonville consolidate with Davis County?.
largest metropolitan area florida southeast.	What is the largest metropolitan area in Florida and the Southeast?.
city proper population 1,345,596.	What city proper has a population of 1,345,596?.
river run alongside jacksonville.	What river runs alongside Jacksonville?.
far jacksonville miami.	How far is Jacksonville from Miami?.
name french colony established 1564.	What is the name of the French colony established in 1564?.
prior arrival french, area known jacksonville previously inhabited people.	Prior to the arrival of the French, the area now known as Jacksonville was previously inhabited by what people?.
historical figure jacksonville named.	What historical figure was Jacksonville named after?.
city 340 km jacksonville.	What cities 340 km from Jacksonville?.
year timucue people inhabit jacksonville area.	In what year did the Timucue people inhabit the Jacksonville area?.
british jacksonville site.	What British for was Jacksonville the site of?.
grew narrow point river spanish rule.	What grew at the narrow point in the river under Spanish rule?.
ranking military force jacksonville.	What is the ranking of the military forces in Jacksonville?.
sport attracts tourist jacksonville.	What sport attracts most tourists to Jacksonville?.
many naval base located jacksonville.	How many naval bases are located in Jacksonville?.
jacksonville sometimes called.	What are those from Jacksonville sometimes called?.
made jacksonville major military civilian court since 1900s.	What has made Jacksonville a major military and civilian court since the 1900s?.
many marine base located jacksonville.	How many Marine bases are located in Jacksonville?.
people florida sometimes called.	What are people from Florida sometimes called?.
port united states's third-largest seaport.	Which port is United States's third-largest seaport?.
minor factor local economy.	What are some of the minor factors in the local economy?.
area jacksonville currently sits inhabited many year.	The area where Jacksonville currently sits has been inhabited for how many years?.
discovered pottery found black hammock island.	Who discovered pottery found on Black Hammock Island?.
civilization pottery belong.	What civilization did the pottery belong to?.
16th century known start.	What is the 16th century known as the start of?.
name village existed downtown jacksonville.	What is the name of the village that once existed in what is now downtown Jacksonville?.
area remained uninhabited thousand year.	What area remained uninhabited for thousands of years? .
lent team northern university student discover pottery.	What I lent to the team of northern University students discover pottery?.
university student find dated sixteenth century.	What to do university students find the dated sixteenth century?.
area mocama inhabit 2500 bc.	What area did the Mocama inhabit in 2500 BC?.
sauriwa earliest known name area.	Sauriwa is the earliest known name for what area?.
mapped st. john river 1562.	Who mapped the St. Johns River in 1562?.
nation ribault initially claim jacksonville.	For what nation did Ribault initially claim what is now Jacksonville?.
led attack french colony 1565.	Who led the attack of the French colony in 1565?.
fort caroline renamed spanish attack.	What was Fort Caroline renamed to after the Spanish attack?.
fort rebuilt 1964.	Which fort was rebuilt in 1964?.
british explorer chartered st. john's river.	Who was the British explorer chartered the St. John's River?.
ribault erect flag claiming land france.	Where did Ribault erect the flag claiming the land for France?.
pedro menendez de aviles called st. john river river may.	Why did Pedro Menendez de Aviles called the St. John River the river of May?.
led attack spain 1565.	Who led the attack on Spain in 1565?.
year fort san mateo reconstructed.	What year was Fort San Mateo reconstructed?.
event spanish concede florida britain.	After what event did the Spanish concede Florida to Britain?.
soon gaining florida, english.	Soon after gaining Florida, what did the English do?.
narrow part st. john's river called cowford.	Why the narrow part of St. John's River called Cowford?.
gained control florida conclusion revolutionary war.	Who gained control of Florida after the conclusion of the Revolutionary War?.
jacksonville town charter approved.	When was the Jacksonville town charter approved?.
french construct king road.	When did the French construct Kings Road?.
french construct shortly losing florida.	What do French construct shortly before losing Florida?.
town charter approved 1821.	What town charter was approved in 1821?.
supply jacksonville support faction civil war.	Supplies from Jacksonville were in support of which faction in the Civil War?.
name battle marked first confederate win florida.	What was the name of the battle that marked the first Confederate win in Florida?.
battle union force return occupy jacksonville rest war.	After what battle did Union forces return to and occupy Jacksonville for the rest of the war?.
factor negatively impacted jacksonville following war.	What factors negatively impacted Jacksonville following the war?.
year battle resulted confederate cavalry unit attacking union expedition.	In what year was the battle that resulted from a Confederate cavalry unit attacking a Union expedition?.
jacksonville support supply revolutionary war.	Who did Jacksonville support with supplies during the Revolutionary war?.
name battle marked first confederate loss florida.	What was the name of the battle that marked the first Confederate loss in Florida?.
battle union force leave jacksonville good.	After what battle did Union forces leave Jacksonville for good?.
battle involve confederate calvary 1862.	What battle involve the Confederate Calvary in 1862?.
word jacksonville key supply point north.	During what word was Jacksonville a key supply point for the North?.
period jacksonville become popular destination rich.	During which period did Jacksonville become a popular destination for the rich?.
u president visited jacksonville 1888.	Which US President visited Jacksonville in 1888?.
caused jacksonville's tourism become le desirable latter half 19th century.	What caused Jacksonville's tourism to become less desirable at the latter half of the 19th century?.
drew would-be jacksonville tourist florida destination.	What drew would-be Jacksonville tourists to other Florida destinations?.
steamboat, modern form travel brought visitor florida.	Other than the steamboat, what modern form of travel brought visitors to Florida?.
age jacksonville longer popular destination rich.	During what age was Jacksonville no longer a popular destination for the rich?.
sen. visited jacksonville 1888.	What Sen. visited Jacksonville in 1888?.
caused jacksonville tourism le desirable 1900s.	What caused Jacksonville tourism to be less desirable during the 1900s?.
extension drew taurus jacksonville.	Extensions of what drew Taurus to Jacksonville?.
modern form travel took visitor part florida.	What modern forms of travel took visitors to other parts of Florida?.
caused spread jacksonville fire 1901.	What caused the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901?.
many building razed jacksonville fire.	How many buildings were razed by the Jacksonville fire?.
wake jacksonville fire, florida governor.	In the wake of the Jacksonville fire, what did the Florida Governor do?.
jacksonville fire later known.	What was the Jacksonville fire later known as?.
slowed spread jacksonville fire 1901.	What slowed the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901?.
fire destroyed 146 building jacksonville.	When was the fire that destroyed 146 buildings in Jacksonville?.
fire left 2000 people homeless.	What fire left 2000 people homeless?.
largest urban fire united state.	What was the largest urban fire in the United States?.
architect prominent jacksonville prior fire.	What architect was prominent in Jacksonville prior to the fire?.
drawn jacksonville 1910s.	Who was drawn to Jacksonville in the 1910s?.
type movie produced jacksonville's 30 studio.	What type of movies were produced in Jacksonville's 30 studios?.
jacksonville's popularity film earned title.	Jacksonville's popularity for films earned it what title?.
brought downfall jacksonville filmmaking.	What brought the downfall of Jacksonville filmmaking?.
industry attracted jacksonville early nineteenth century.	Is what industry was attracted to Jacksonville in the early nineteenth century?.
film city struggled jacksonville grew popularity.	What other film city struggled as Jacksonville grew in popularity?.
hollywood known.	What was Hollywood known as?.
former studio jacksonville converted modern film museum.	What former studio in Jacksonville has been converted to a modern film Museum?.
drove resident quieter suburban housing.	What drove residents to quieter suburban housing?.
white population jacksonville 2010.	What was the white population of Jacksonville as of 2010?.
term referred middle class citizen leaving suburb.	What term referred to middle class citizens leaving the suburbs?.
responsible new building project jacksonville.	Who was responsible for the new building projects in Jacksonville?.
jacksonville began suffer decline major world event.	Jacksonville began to suffer and decline after what major world event?.
jacksonville suffer following world war.	What did Jacksonville suffer from following World War I?.
construction led resident move suburb.	Construction of what led residents to move from the suburbs?.
much jacksonville's hispanic white population decline call.	By how much did Jacksonville's Hispanic white population decline? Call.
began decline world war.	What began to decline after World War I?.
called jacksonville's white population moved city.	What was it called when Jacksonville's white population moved to the city?.
cause issue city funding.	What was the cause for the issues with city funding?.
part city resident suffer lack city service.	In what part of the city did residents suffer from a lack of city services?.
proposed solution jacksonville's tax issue.	What was the proposed solution to Jacksonville's tax issues?.
voted jacksonville's annexation.	Who voted against Jacksonville's annexation?.
cause city funding increase.	What cause city funding to increase?.
municipal service concentrated.	Where were most municipal services concentrated at?.
year suggested jacksonville stop annexing outlying community.	In what year was it suggested the Jacksonville stop annexing outlying communities?.
voted jacksonville's annexation.	Who voted for Jacksonville's annexation?.
city official elected 1960s.	How were most city officials elected in the 1960s?.
many city official indicted due corruption.	How many city officials were indicted due to corruption?.
political group began gain support following corruption scandal.	What political group began to gain support following the corruption scandal?.
spurred increased support government reform.	What spurred increased support for government reform?.
city official elected 1960s.	How are most city officials elected after the 1960s.
many former city official investigated grand jury.	How many former city officials were investigated by the grand jury?.
political group begin lose support following corruption scandal.	What political group begin to lose support following the corruption scandals?.
happened public high school gained accreditation.	What happened when public high schools gained accreditation?.
reason consolidate government.	What were the reasons not to consolidate the government?.
result 1967 referendum.	What was the result of the 1967 referendum?.
jacksonville's mayor time consolidation.	Who was Jacksonville's mayor at the time of the consolidation?.
jacksonville referred consolidation.	What was Jacksonville referred to as after the consolidation?.
name approved measure helped cover cost major city project.	What was the name of the approved measure that helped cover the cost of major city projects?.
better jacksonville plan generate money.	How did the Better Jacksonville Plan generate money?.
voter reject 1967.	What do voters reject in 1967.
formed government merged 1967.	What was formed when the government merged in 1967?.
service consolidated new government.	Was services were not consolidated under the new government?.
jacksonville referred consolidation.	What was Jacksonville referred to before the consolidation?.
land area jacksonville.	What is the land area of Jacksonville?.
river separate jacksonville.	What river separates Jacksonville?.
name river completely contained inside jacksonville.	What is the name of the river that is completely contained inside Jacksonville?.
much jacksonville made water.	How much of Jacksonville is made up of water?.
town surrounded jacksonville.	What town is surrounded by Jacksonville?.
sitting 874.3 km².	Was sitting is 874.3 km²?.
river surround jacksonville.	What River surrounds Jacksonville?.
make 11.6% jacksonville.	What makes up 11.6% of Jacksonville?.
name river lie completely outside jacksonville.	What is the name of the river that lies completely outside of Jacksonville?.
town surround jacksonville.	What town surrounds Jacksonville?.
distinction bank america tower hold.	What distinction does the Bank of America Tower hold?.
bank america tower previously known.	The Bank of America Tower was previously known as what?.
tall bank america tower.	How tall is the Bank of America Tower?.
many floor building completed 1967.	How many floors are there in the building that was completed in 1967?.
make well fargo center stand.	What makes the Wells Fargo Center stand out?.
shortest building downtown jacksonville.	In the shortest building in downtown Jacksonville?.
building 617 tall.	Building a 617 m tall?.
thirty-seven story building built 1972.	What thirty-seven story building was built in 1972?.
many story bank america tower.	How many stories does the Bank of America tower have?.
type climate jacksonville.	What type of climate does Jacksonville have?.
rain typically fall jacksonville.	When does rain typically fall in Jacksonville?.
winter weather jacksonville described.	How is winter weather in Jacksonville described as?.
aside located coast, contributes jacksonville's lack cold weather.	Aside from being located on the coast, what contributes to Jacksonville's lack of cold weather?.
city tropical climate.	Was city has a tropical climate?.
kind winter jacksonville along hot dry summer.	What kind of winters does Jacksonville have along with hot and dry summers?.
concentrated coldest month year.	What is concentrated in the coldest months of the year?.
high altitude well contributes jacksonville's lack cold-weather question work.	High altitude as well as what contributes to Jacksonville's lack of cold-weather question work.
jacksonville's hottest recorded temperature.	What is Jacksonville's hottest recorded temperature?.
common occurrence summer day.	What is a common occurrence during summer days?.
else contributes jacksonville's summer storm land heating beside water.	What else contributes to Jacksonville's summer storms other than land heating beside the water?.
jacksonville's hottest month average.	What is Jacksonville's hottest month on average?.
jacksonville's highest recorded monthly temperature.	What is Jacksonville's highest recorded monthly temperature?.
kind storm common fall.	What kind of storms are common in the fall?.
low humidity lead jacksonville's storm.	Low humidity and what lead to Jacksonville's storms?.
way jacksonville's coldest month record.	My ways Jacksonville's coldest month on record?.
storm significant impact jacksonville.	What storm had the most significant impact on Jacksonville?.
fast wind around st. augustine 1964 hurricane.	How fast were the winds around St. Augustine in the 1964 hurricane?.
name storm hit jacksonville may 2012.	What was the name of the storm that hit Jacksonville in May of 2012?.
scale used measure strength hurricane called.	What is the scale used to measure the strength of hurricanes called?.
year tropical storm cause four day loss power jacksonville.	In what year did a tropical storm cause a four day loss of power to Jacksonville?.
hurricane le effect jacksonville city along coast.	What hurricane had less effect on Jacksonville than other cities along the coast?.
high wind around st. augustine 1871 hurricane.	How high were the winds around St. Augustine during the 1871 hurricane?.
storm crisscrossed state hitting jacksonville 1964.	What storm crisscrossed the state hitting Jacksonville in 1964?.
p damaged 2008 tropical storm fay.	What P or was damaged during the 2008 tropical storm Fay?.
hurricane dora caused minor.	Hurricane Dora caused a minor what?.
ethnic group located jacksonville ranked tenth largest.	What ethnic group located in Jacksonville is ranked tenth largest?.
many resident recorded 2010 census jacksonville.	How many residents were recorded in the 2010 census of Jacksonville?.
compared rest florida, jacksonville's filipino population rank.	Compared to the rest of Florida, how does Jacksonville's Filipino population rank?.
jacksonville community known heavy tie navy.	What Jacksonville community is known for having heavy ties to the Navy?.
city arab twelve largest ethnic group.	In what city or the Arabs the twelve largest ethnic group?.
year 366,233 people jacksonville.	In what year were there 366,233 people in Jacksonville?.
else smaller filipino population jacksonville.	Where else is there a smaller Filipino population that in Jacksonville?.
year 5751 filipino jacksonville.	In what year were there 5751 Filipinos in Jacksonville.
military branch much jacksonville's arab population tie.	What military branch does much of Jacksonville's Arab population have ties to?.
portion household jacksonville one person.	What portion of households in Jacksonville have only one person?.
many jacksonville's city resident younger 18.	How many of Jacksonville's city residents are younger than 18?.
gender populous across group jacksonville.	Which gender is more populous across all groups in Jacksonville?.
many men older 18 every 100 woman.	How many men older than 18 are there for every 100 women?.
year 366,273 people jacksonville.	What year was 366,273 people in Jacksonville?.
many jacksonville city's resident older eighteen.	How many of Jacksonville city's residents are older than eighteen?.
many woman older eighteen every 100 men.	How many women older than eighteen are there for every 100 men?.
average household size 3.21.	Where was the average household size was 3.21.
percentage married couple child living.	What percentage of married couples had children living with them?.
percentage global asset richest 1% people.	What percentage of global assets does the richest 1% of people have?.
according oxfam, 85 richest people wealth equal many average people.	According to Oxfam, the 85 richest people have wealth equal to how many average people?.
order considered top percentile, person would need amass much money year.	In order to be considered in the top percentile, a person would need to amass how much money each year?.
caused oxfam's finding questioned.	What has caused Oxfam's findings to be questioned?.
oxfam credit suisse believe finding doubted.	Why does Oxfam and Credit Suisse believe their findings are being doubted?.
percent global asset 2000 owned 1% adult.	What percent of the global assets in 2000 were owned by just 1% of adults?.
three richest people world posse lowest 48 nation together.	What do the three richest people in the world posses more of than the lowest 48 nations together?.
much combined wealth "10 million dollar millionaires" 2008.	How much was the combined wealth of the "10 Million dollar millionaires" in 2008?.
much global wealth wealthiest 1 percent 2016.	How much of the global wealth will the wealthiest 1 percent own by 2016?.
poor people united state europe china.	Why are there more poor people in the United States and Europe than China?.
percentage global asset richest 10% people.	What percentage of global assets does the richest 10% of people have?.
according oxfam, 58 richest people wealth equal many average people.	According to Oxfam, the 58 richest people have wealth equal to how many average people?.
order considered bottom percentile, person would need amass much money year.	In order to be considered in the bottom percentile, a person would need to amass how much money each year?.
caused oxfam's finding questioned.	What has caused Oxfam's findings to not be questioned?.
oxfam credit suisse believe finding accepted.	Why does Oxfam and Credit Suisse believe their findings are being accepted?.
many american richer half citizen.	How many Americans are richer than more than half of all citizens?.
publication printed wealthiest 1% money bottom 90%.	What publication printed that the wealthiest 1% have more money than those in the bottom 90%?.
considered potential advantage wealth american.	What is considered as a potential advantage for wealth for some Americans?.
richest 400 american child helped successful adult.	What did the richest 400 Americans have as children that helped them be successful adults?.
top 400 richest american half american combined.	What do the top 400 richest Americans have more of than half of all Americans combined?.
owns wealth bottom 90 percent people u.s..	Who owns more wealth than the bottom 90 percent of people in the U.S.?.
may explain american who've become rich may head start.	What may explain why some Americans who've become rich may have had a head start?.
many richest 400 american grew substantial privilege.	How many of the richest 400 Americans grew up in substantial privilege?.
institute published finding september 2012 regarding forbes richest 400 american.	What Institute published findings in September 2012 regarding the Forbes richest 400 Americans?.
many american richer le half citizen.	How many Americans are richer than less than half of all citizens?.
publication printed wealthiest 1% money bottom 99%.	What publication printed that the wealthiest 1% have more money than those in the bottom 99%?.
considered potential disadvantage wealth american.	What is considered as a potential disadvantage for wealth for some Americans?.
richest 40 american child helped successful adult.	What did the richest 40 Americans have as children that helped them be successful adults?.
top 400 richest american le half american combined.	What do the top 400 richest Americans have less of than half of all Americans combined?.
philosophy thought address wealth inequality.	What philosophy of thought  addresses wealth inequality?.
income inequality attributed.	What is income inequality attributed to?.
impact distribution wealth evaluating labor.	What impacts distribution of wealth when evaluating labor?.
term describes difference higher paid lower paid professional earn.	What is the term that describes the difference between what higher paid and lower paid professionals earn?.
income determined market variously skilled worker.	How is income determined in a market with variously skilled workers?.
neoclassical economics view inequality distribution income.	What did Neoclassical economics view the inequality in the distribution of income as being from?.
distribution income labor due difference.	What is distribution of income from labor due to the differences of?.
marginal value added economic actor determine.	What does the marginal value added by an economic actor determine?.
example economic actor.	What are examples of economic actors?.
market economy, inequality reflection.	In a market economy, what is inequality a reflection of?.
philosophy thought address wealth equality.	What philosophy of thought addresses wealth equality?.
income inequality attributed.	What is income inequality not attributed to?.
impact distribution wealth evaluating labor.	What impacts distribution of wealth when not evaluating labor?.
term describes indifference higher paid lower paid professional earn.	What is the term that describes the indifference between what higher paid and lower paid professionals earn?.
income determined market variously unskilled worker.	How is income determined in a market with variously unskilled workers?.
push business increase pressure worker.	What pushes businesses to increase pressures on workers?.
impact worker working harder productivity business.	What impact does workers working harder have on productivity of a business?.
le worker required, happens job market.	When less workers are required, what happens to the job market?.
impact higher worker productivity leveled pay higher earner.	What impact does higher worker productivity and leveled pay have on higher earners?.
capitalist firm substitute equipment marxian analysis.	What do capitalist firms substitute equipment for in a Marxian analysis?.
firm substitute equipment worker.	Why do firms substitute equipment for workers?.
trend increase organic composition capital long term.	What trend increases the organic composition of capital over the long term?.
substitution equipment labor raise worker.	What does the substitution of equipment for labor raise for workers?.
type wage mechanization automation lead.	What type of wages does mechanization and automation lead to?.
push business decrease pressure worker.	What pushes businesses to decrease pressures on workers?.
impact worker working le productivity business.	What impact does workers working less have on productivity of a business?.
worker required, happens job market.	When more workers are required, what happens to the job market?.
impact higher worker productivity leveled pay lower earner.	What impact does higher worker productivity and leveled pay have on lower earners?.
capitalist firm substitute equipment marxian analysis.	What don't capitalist firms substitute equipment for in a Marxian analysis?.
controled market economy.	What is controled by the market and economy?.
law value worker determined.	Under what law is value of a worker determined?.
happens business underpays worker.	What happens when business underpays their workers?.
competing business attract worker.	How do competing businesses attract workers?.
income inequality generally viewed worker.	How is income inequality generally viewed by workers?.
control wage purely capitalist mode production.	What controls wages in a purely capitalist mode of production?.
wage work way good.	What do wages work in the same way as for any other good?.
considered function market price skill.	What can be considered as a function of market price of skill?.
concentrate wealth, pas environmental cost society abuse worker consumer.	What can concentrate wealth, pass environmental costs on to society and abuse both workers and consumers?.
type outcome even stable market lead.	What type of outcomes can even stable markets lead to?.
uncontroled market economy.	What is uncontroled by the market and economy?.
happens business overpays worker.	What happens when business overpays their workers?.
law value worker undetermined.	Under what law is value of a worker undetermined?.
competing business repel worker.	How do competing businesses repel workers?.
income inequality generally viewed worker.	How isn't income inequality generally viewed by workers?.
tendency increase wage field job position.	What has the tendency to increase wages in a field or job position?.
many worker competing job considered.	When there are many workers competing for a few jobs its considered as what?.
potential earnings job skilled worker many available position.	What is the potential earnings for a job where there are few skilled workers but many available positions?.
lead higher wage member labor organization.	What can lead to higher wages for members of labor organizations?.
work get worker higher compensation.	Who works to get workers higher compensation?.
many worker willing work lot time competing job requires worker result.	What does many workers willing to work for a lot of time competing for a job that only requires a few workers result in?.
drive wage job many worker willing work lot.	What drives down wages in a job with many workers willing to work a lot?.
competition among worker drive wage.	Why does competition among workers drive down wages?.
type wage result job low supply high demand.	What type of wages result from jobs where there is low supply but high demand?.
competition worker drive wage job high supply worker, whose competition drive wage inverse.	While competition between workers drives down wages for jobs with a high supply of worker, whose competition drives wages up for the inverse?.
tendency decrease wage field job position.	What has the tendency to decrease wages in a field or job position?.
many worker competing many job considered.	When there are many workers competing for a many jobs its considered as what?.
potential earnings job many skilled worker many available position.	What is the potential earnings for a job where there are many skilled workers but many available positions?.
lead lower wage member labor organization.	What can lead to lower wages for members of labor organizations?.
work get worker lower compensation.	Who works to get workers lower compensation?.
increase increase income inequality.	What increases with the increase of income inequality?.
survivial heart concept worker.	Survivial is at the heart of what concept for workers?.
type motivator food shelter considered.	What type of motivators are food and shelter considered?.
type motivator achievement self determination considered.	What type of motivators are achievement and self determination considered?.
type entrepreneurship lead advancement technology.	What type of entrepreneurship leads to advancements in technology?.
increase entrepreneurship rate individual level.	What increases entrepreneurship rates at the individual level?.
increased rate self-employment based.	What is the increased rates of self-employment based on?.
survival need income food shelter motivates type entrepreneurship.	Survival needs such as income for food and shelter motivates what type of entrepreneurship? .
motivation opportunity-based entrepreneurship driven.	What motivation is opportunity-based entrepreneurship driven by?.
type impact opportunity-based entrepreneurship tend economic growth.	What type of impact does opportunity-based entrepreneurship tend to have on economic growth?.
decrease increase income inequality.	What decreases with the increase of income inequality?.
survivial heart concept worker.	Survivial isn't at the heart of what concept for workers?.
type motivator food shelter considered.	What type of motivators aren't food and shelter considered?.
type motivator achievement outside determination considered.	What type of motivators are achievement and outside determination considered?.
type entrepreneurship lead regression technology.	What type of entrepreneurship leads to a regression in technology?.
called tax rate base amount increase simultaneously.	What is it called when the tax rate and base amount increase simultaneously?.
tax rate direct relationship income inequality.	What tax rate has a direct relationship with income inequality?.
work even distribution wealth.	What can work to even the distribution of wealth?.
system impact income inequality.	What system has an impact on income inequality?.
progressive tax, increase taxable base amount increase.	In a progressive tax, what increases as the taxable base amount increases?.
direct impact inequality system us progressive tax.	What will have a direct impact of inequality in a system that uses a progressive tax?.
result equal distribution income.	What can result in more equal distribution of income?.
index indicator effect tax applied social spending.	What index is an indicator of the effects of taxes applied to social spending?.
called tax rate base amount decrease simultaneously.	What is it called when the tax rate and base amount decrease simultaneously?.
tax rate indirect relationship income inequality.	What tax rate has an indirect relationship with income inequality?.
can't work even distribution wealth.	What can't work to even the distribution of wealth?.
system impact income inequality.	What system has no impact on income inequality?.
progressive tax, increase taxable base amount decrease.	In a progressive tax, what increases as the taxable base amount decreases?.
key getting skill needed high demand job.	What is key to getting the skills needed for high demand jobs?.
people lower income le access.	What do people with lower income have less access to?.
le education lead working.	What does less education lead to when working?.
limited productive potential faced le access education.	Who has limited productive potential when faced with less access to education?.
lower income le likely order prepare future.	What are those with lower incomes less likely to have in order to prepare for the future?.
important factor contributing inequality individual.	What is an important factor contributing to inequality for individuals?.
education area high demand worker tend create.	What does education in an area where there is high demand for workers tend to create?.
type wage people unable afford education receive.	What type of wages do people unable to afford an education receive?.
lack education lead directly.	What does lack of education lead directly to?.
help unleash productivity ability poor.	What helps to unleash the productivity ability of the poor?.
key getting skill needed low demand job.	What is key to getting the skills needed for low demand jobs?.
people higher income le access.	What do people with higher income have less access to?.
education lead working.	What does more education lead to when working?.
limited productive potential faced access education.	Who has limited productive potential when faced with more access to education?.
lower income likely order prepare future.	What are those with lower incomes more likely to have in order to prepare for the future?.
standard & poor recommend speed economy recovery.	What did Standard & Poor recommend to speed economy recovery?.
much potential economic growth could united state amass everyone went schooling.	How much potential economic growth could the United States amass if everyone went through more schooling?.
united state risk recession 2008.	What is the United States at risk for because of the recession of 2008?.
concluded rising income inequality gap getting better.	Who concluded that the rising income inequality gap was not getting better?.
economist reach conclusion s&p's rating agency.	When did economists reach a conclusion with the S&P's rating agency?.
recovery widening gap richest citizen rest nation slow.	When the recovery between the widening gap between the richest citizens and rest of the nation slow?.
s&p recommend somewhat remedy wealth gap.	What did S&P recommend to somewhat remedy the wealth gap?.
average u.s. worker complete additional year school, amount growth would generated 5 year.	If the average U.S. worker were to complete an additional year of school, what amount of growth would be generated over 5 years?.
wealth disparity make economy prone.	What does wealth disparity make the economy more prone to?.
standard & poor recommend slow economy recovery.	What did Standard & Poor recommend to slow economy recovery?.
much potential economic growth could united state amass everyone went le schooling.	How much potential economic growth could the United States amass if everyone went through less schooling?.
united state risk recession 2000.	What is the United States at risk for because of the recession of 2000?.
concluded rising income inequality gap getting better.	Who concluded that the rising income inequality gap was getting better?.
economist reach conclusion without s&p's rating agency.	When did economists reach a conclusion without the S&P's rating agency?.
high school education movement occur.	When did the high school education movement occur?.
impact high school education movement presence skilled worker.	What impact did the high school education movement have on the presence of skilled workers?.
impact high school education movement wage skilled worker.	What impact did the high school education movement have on the wages of skilled workers?.
impact gender inequality wage.	What impacts gender inequality in wages?.
contributed decreased inequality trained untrained worker.	What contributed to the decreased inequality between trained and untrained workers?.
mass high school education movement.	When was the mass high school education movement?.
increase skilled worker lead.	What did the increase in skilled workers lead to?.
education high school education movement differ subsequent high school education.	How did the education during the high school education movement differ from the subsequent high school education?.
important growth economy.	What is very important for the growth of the economy?.
result creating poverty trap.	What can result in creating a poverty trap?.
middle school education movement occur.	When did the middle school education movement occur?.
impact high school education movement presence unskilled worker.	What impact did the high school education movement have on the presence of unskilled workers?.
impact high school education movement wage unskilled worker.	What impact did the high school education movement have on the wages of unskilled workers?.
impact gender inequality wage.	What doesn't impact gender inequality in wages?.
contributed increased inequality trained untrained worker.	What contributed to the increased inequality between trained and untrained workers?.
type organization decline u adversely effect economic mobility.	What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic mobility?.
set country higher economic mobility united state.	Which set of countries have higher economic mobility than the United States?.
policy labor union encouraged.	Under which policy are labor unions encouraged?.
much support u approach economic development.	How much support is there for the US approach to economic development?.
economic liberalism one cause.	What is economic liberalism one of the causes of?.
u.s. economic social model substantial level.	What does the U.S. economic and social model have substantial levels of?.
organization john schmitt ben zipperer member.	What organization is John Schmitt and Ben Zipperer members of?.
much support evidence provide view labor-market flexibility improves labor-market outcome.	How much support does evidence provide for the view that labor-market flexibility improves labor-market outcomes?.
level economic mobility u.s. economy compared european country.	What level of economic mobility does the U.S. economy have compared to European countries?.
type organization decline u adversely effect economic immobility.	What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic immobility?.
set country lower economic mobility united state.	Which set of countries have lower economic mobility than the United States?.
policy labor union discouraged.	Under which policy are labor unions discouraged?.
much support un approach economic development.	How much support is there for the UN approach to economic development?.
economic liberalism one cause.	What is economic liberalism not one of the causes of?.
country low income inequality high presence union.	What country has low income inequality and high presence of unions?.
weak labor movement correlate.	What do weak labor movement correlate with?.
negative impact labor market u.	What has had a negative impact on the labor markets in the US?.
presented problem u economy nation.	What has presented problems to the US economy more than other nations?.
profession jake rosenfield.	What is the profession of Jake Rosenfield?.
college jake rosenfield associated.	What college is Jake Rosenfield associated with?.
rosenfield feel play significant role expanding income gap.	What does Rosenfield feel plays the most significant role in expanding the income gap?.
rate unionization scandinavian nation.	What rate of unionization do Scandinavian nations have?.
high inequality go hand-in-hand.	What does high inequality go hand-in-hand with?.
country low income inequality low presence union.	What country has low income inequality and low presence of unions?.
strong labor movement correlate.	What do strong labor movement correlate with?.
negative impact labor market un.	What has had a negative impact on the labor markets in the UN?.
presented problem un economy nation.	What has presented problems to the UN economy more than other nations?.
profession jake rosenfield.	What isn't the profession of Jake Rosenfield?.
effect trade poorer country worker richer country.	What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in richer countries?.
effect trade richer country worker poorer country.	What effect does trade with richer countries have on the workers in poorer countries?.
bigger impact united states' economy trade.	What has a bigger impact on the United States' economy more than trade?.
replaced lower skilled worker united state.	What has replaced lower skilled workers in the United States?.
scale trade liberalization shift economic inequality.	What scale does trade liberalization shift economic inequality from?.
rich country trade poor countries, whose wage increase.	When rich countries trade with poor countries, whose wages increase?.
paul krugmen think observable effect inequality u.s..	What does Paul Krugmen think has had an observable effect on inequality in the U.S.?.
compared causes, effect trade inequality america.	Compared to other causes, the effect of trade on inequality in America is what?.
technological innovation automation replaced low-skilled job.	What has technological innovation and automation replaced low-skilled jobs with?.
effect trade poorer country worker poorer country.	What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in poorer countries?.
smaller impact united states' economy trade.	What has a smaller impact on the United States' economy more than trade?.
replaced higher skilled worker united state.	What has replaced higher skilled workers in the United States?.
scale trade liberalization shift economic inequality.	What scale doesn't trade liberalization shift economic inequality from?.
income inequality gap gender botswana.	What is the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana?.
gender income inequality bahrain.	What is the gender income inequality in Bahrain?.
attributed income inequality united state.	What is attributed to the income inequality in the United States?.
wage gap gender provide advantage.	Who does the wage gap between genders provide an advantage?.
many countries, kind pay gap.	In many countries, what kind of pay gap is there?.
gender pay gap tend favor.	Who does a gender pay gap tend to favor?.
gender le willing travel relocate work.	What gender is less willing to travel or relocate for work?.
author book, "knowledge decisions".	Who is the author of the book, "Knowledge and Decisions"?.
u.s. census report state even factor still exists earnings men woman.	What does a U.S. census report state that even after other factors there still exists this between earnings of men and women?.
income inequality gap gender botswana.	What isn't the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana?.
gender income inequality bahrain.	What isn't the gender income inequality in Bahrain?.
attributed income inequality united nation.	What is attributed to the income inequality in the United Nations?.
wage gap gender provide disadvantage.	Who does the wage gap between genders provide a disadvantage?.
many countries, kind pay gap.	In many countries, what kind of pay gap isn't there?.
type program help redistribute wealth.	What types of programs help to redistribute wealth?.
level inequality underdeveloped country.	What is the level of inequality in underdeveloped countries?.
introduces inequality country.	What introduces inequality to a country?.
lead lower income inequality.	What leads to lower income inequality?.
profession simon kuznets.	What profession does Simon Kuznets have?.
kuznets argue resulted stage development.	What did Kuznets argue resulted from stages of development?.
country acquire develops.	What does a country acquire as it develops?.
owner capital end.	What do the owners of more capital end up having?.
redistribution mechanism lead.	What do redistribution mechanisms lead to?.
type program help redistribute wealth.	What types of programs don't help to redistribute wealth?.
level inequality overdeveloped country.	What is the level of inequality in overdeveloped countries?.
introduce inequality country.	What doesn't introduce inequality to a country?.
lead higher income inequality.	What leads to higher income inequality?.
profession simon kuznets.	What profession doesn't Simon Kuznets have?.
time period income inequality decrease united state.	During what time period did income inequality decrease in the United States?.
income inequality begin increase u.	When did income inequality begin to increase in the US?.
sector job beginning increase.	In what sector are jobs beginning to increase?.
sector job beginning decrease.	In what sector are jobs beginning to decrease?.
plotted relationship level income inequality.	Who plotted the relationships between levels of income and inequality?.
developing economy's level inequality bulging called.	What is a a developing economy's level of inequality bulging out called?.
recent testing kuznets theory superior data show.	What has recent testing of Kuznets theory with superior data show it to be?.
kuznets' curve predict income inequality given time.	What does Kuznets' curve predict about income inequality given time?.
may possible multiple kuznets' cycle given time.	What may be possible for multiple Kuznets' cycles to be in at any given time?.
time period income inequality increase united state.	During what time period did income inequality increase in the United States?.
income inequality begin decrease u.	When did income inequality begin to decrease in the US?.
sector job beginning decrease.	In what sector are jobs beginning to decrease?.
sector job beginning increase.	In what sector are jobs beginning to increase?.
never plotted relationship level income inequality.	Who never plotted the relationships between levels of income and inequality?.
process attribute new wealth already.	What process attributes new wealth to those that already have it?.
according wealth concentration theory, advantage wealthy accumulating new wealth.	According to the wealth concentration theory, what advantage do the wealthy have in accumulating new wealth?.
highest impact wealth accumulation resulting income inequality.	What has the highest impact on wealth accumulation and the resulting income inequality?.
tends lead money.	What tends to lead to more money?.
newly created wealth concentrate.	Where does newly created wealth concentrate? .
best able leverage accumulation wealth.	Who is best able to leverage the accumulation of wealth?.
significantly contribute continuing inequality society time.	What can significantly contribute to the continuing inequality in a society over time?.
wrote book "capital twenty-first century".	Who wrote the book "Capital in the Twenty-First Century"?.
larger fortune generate.	What do larger fortunes generate?.
process attribute old wealth already.	What process attributes old wealth to those that already have it?.
according wealth concentration theory, disadvantage wealthy accumulating new wealth.	According to the wealth concentration theory, what disadvantage do the wealthy have in accumulating new wealth?.
lowest impact wealth accumulation resulting income inequality.	What has the lowest impact on wealth accumulation and the resulting income inequality?.
tends lead le money.	What tends to lead to less money?.
oldly created wealth concentrate.	Where does oldly created wealth concentrate? .
career joseph stiglitz.	What career does Joseph Stiglitz have?.
force serve brake wealth concentration.	What forces should serve as a brake on wealth concentration?.
type skill market bid compensation.	What type of skills does the market bid up compensation for?.
used certain wealthy group obtain policy financially beneficial.	What is used by certain wealthy groups to obtain policies financially beneficial for them?.
income creation wealth grabbing larger share know economist term.	Income not from the creation of wealth but by grabbing a larger share of it is know to economists by what term?.
career joseph stiglitz.	What career doesn't Joseph Stiglitz have?.
force serve brake wealth concentration.	What forces shouldn't serve as a brake on wealth concentration?.
type skill market bid compensation.	What type of skills does the market bid down compensation for?.
used certain unwealthy group obtain policy financially beneficial.	What is used by certain unwealthy groups to obtain policies financially beneficial for them?.
income creation wealth grabbing smaller share know economist term.	Income not from the creation of wealth but by grabbing a smaller share of it is know to economists by what term?.
higher rate health social problem two example effect.	Higher rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what?.
lower level economic growth occur due high-end consumption.	Why does a lower level of economic growth occur due to high-end consumption?.
lower country inequality top 21 industrialized country.	What is lower in countries with more inequality for the top 21 industrialized countries?.
lower rate social good effect.	What is a lower rate of social goods an effect of?.
u.s. states, happens life expectancy le economically equal one.	In U.S. states, what happens to the life expectancy in less economically equal ones?.
lower rate health social problem two example effect.	Lower rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what?.
higher level economic growth occur due high-end consumption.	Why does a higher level of economic growth occur due to high-end consumption?.
higher country inequality top 21 industrialized country.	What is higher in countries with more inequality for the top 21 industrialized countries?.
higher rate social good effect.	What is a higher rate of social goods an effect of?.
u.s. states, happens life expectancy economically equal one.	In U.S. states, what happens to the life expectancy in more economically equal ones?.
year robert j. shiller win economics nobel prize.	What year did Robert J. Shiller win an Economics Nobel prize?.
important problem united state elsewhere.	What is the most important problem in the United States and elsewhere?.
persistent unemployment effect long-term economic growth.	Persistent unemployment has what effect on long-term economic growth?.
what's one factor eroding self-esteem.	What's one factor in eroding self-esteem?.
policy reduce inequality associated effect unemployment support type growth.	Policies which reduce the inequality associated effects of unemployment support what type of growth?.
year robert j. shiller lose economics nobel prize.	What year did Robert J. Shiller lose an Economics Nobel prize?.
least important problem united state elsewhere.	What is the least important problem in the United States and elsewhere?.
what's one factor increasing self-esteem.	What's one factor in increasing self-esteem?.
persistent unemployment effect short-term economic growth.	Persistent unemployment has what effect on short-term economic growth?.
policy reduce inequality associated effect unemployment hurt type growth.	Policies which reduce the inequality associated effects of unemployment hurt what type of growth?.
nationality researcher richard g. wilkinson kate pickett.	What nationality are researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett?.
rate health social problem country high inequality.	What rates of health and social problems are in countries with high inequality?.
rate social good country higher inequality.	How are the rates of social goods in countries with higher inequality?.
health problem lower place higher level.	Health problems were lower in places with higher levels of what?.
many developed country british researcher use gather statistic.	How many developed countries did British researchers use to gather statistics from?.
nationality researcher richard g. wilkinson kate pickett.	What nationality aren't researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett?.
rate health social problem country low inequality.	What rates of health and social problems are in countries with low inequality?.
rate social good country lower inequality.	How are the rates of social goods in countries with lower inequality?.
health problem higher place higher level.	Health problems were higher in places with higher levels of what?.
many undeveloped country british researcher use gather statistic.	How many undeveloped countries did British researchers use to gather statistics from?.
higher material living standard lead human history.	What did higher material living standards lead to for most of human history?.
pattern higher income-longer life still hold true.	Where does the pattern of higher income-longer lives still hold true?.
increase rapidly per caput income increase.	What increases rapidly as per capita income increases?.
life longer average greek new zealander.	Who lives no longer on average than Greeks and New Zealanders?.
income distributed sweden.	How are incomes distributed in Sweden?.
lower material living standard lead human history.	What did lower material living standards lead to for most of human history?.
pattern lower income-longer life still hold true.	Where does the pattern of lower income-longer lives still hold true?.
decrease rapidly per caput income increase.	What decreases rapidly as per capita income increases?.
life longer average greek new zealander.	Who lives longer on average than Greeks and New Zealanders?.
income distributed sweden.	How aren't incomes distributed in Sweden?.
characteristic recent year strongly tied health developed country.	What characteristic in recent years has been strongly tied with health in developed countries?.
created index health social problem.	Who created an index of health and social problems?.
many factor health social problem wilkinson pickett identify.	How many factors of health and social problems did Wilkinson and PIckett identify?.
health social problem common.	Where are health and social problems most common?.
child well-being rich country correlate.	What does child well-being in rich countries correlate most to?.
characteristic recent year weakly tied health developed country.	What characteristic in recent years has been weakly tied with health in developed countries?.
rejected index health social problem.	Who rejected an index of health and social problems?.
many factor health social problem wilkinson pickett identify.	How many factors of health and social problems did Wilkinson and PIckett not identify?.
health social problem least common.	Where are health and social problems least common?.
child well-being poor country correlate.	What does child well-being in poor countries correlate most to?.
crime rate show correlated society.	What has crime rate been show to be correlated with in a society?.
almost identical across nation jurisdiction.	What is almost identical across all nations and jurisdictions?.
many study shown violence common society income difference.	Over how many studies have shown that violence is more common in societies with income differences?.
much difference homicide rate related inequality.	How much of a difference in homicide rates are related to inequality?.
estimated half variation homicide rate accounted.	What is it estimated that about half of all variation in homicide rates can be accounted for by?.
crime rate shown correlated society.	What has crime rate been shown not to be correlated with in a society?.
never identical across nation jurisdiction.	What is never identical across all nations and jurisdictions?.
many study shown violence le common society income difference.	Over how many studies have shown that violence is less common in societies with income differences?.
much difference homicide rate related inequality.	How much of a difference in homicide rates aren't related to inequality?.
estimated third variation homicide rate accounted.	What is it estimated that about a third of all variation in homicide rates can be accounted for by?.
utilitarian principle seek greatest number people.	What does the utilitarian principle seek for the greatest number of people?.
adobe provides le utility one person another example reduced.	An adobe that provides less utility to one person than another is an example of reduced what?.
dollar spent poor person likely provide.	A dollar spent by a poor person is likely to provide what for them?.
marginal utility wealth per income per person person becomes richer.	What the marginal utility of wealth per income per person do as that person becomes richer?.
society equality.	What will a society with more equality have?.
utilitarian principle seek lowest number people.	What does the utilitarian principle seek for the lowest number of people?.
adobe provides utility one person another example reduced.	An adobe that provides more utility to one person than another is an example of reduced what?.
dollar spent rich person likely provide.	A dollar spent by a rich person is likely to provide what for them?.
marginal utility wealth per income per person person becomes poorer.	What the marginal utility of wealth per income per person do as that person becomes poorer?.
society le equality.	What will a society with less equality have?.
conservative researcher fell measure inequality.	What do conservative researchers fell should be a measure of inequality?.
political leaning cato institute.	What political leaning does the Cato Institute have?.
consumption inequality lower 1986.	When was consumption inequality lower than it had been in 1986?.
wrote "the hidden prosperity poor".	Who wrote "The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor"?.
thomas b. edsall's profession.	What is Thomas B. Edsall's profession?.
conservative researcher feel measure inequality.	What do conservative researchers feel shouldn't be a measure of inequality?.
political leaning cato institute.	What political leaning does the Cato Institute not have?.
consumption inequality lower 1968.	When was consumption inequality lower than it had been in 1968?.
never wrote "the hidden prosperity poor".	Who never wrote "The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor"?.
thomas b. edsall's profession.	What isn't Thomas B. Edsall's profession?.
raghuram rajan's career.	What is Raghuram Rajan's career?.
rajan feel created deep financial fault line.	What does Rajan feel has created deep financial fault lines?.
recent example financial fault line.	What is the most recent example of financial fault lines? .
political pressure push extend compensate stagnating purchasing power.	What does political pressure push to extend to compensate for stagnating purchasing power?.
given american economy tendency go "from bubble bubble".	What has given the American economy a tendency to go "from bubble to bubble"?.
raghuram rajan's career.	What isn't Raghuram Rajan's career?.
rajan feel created deep financial fault line.	What does Rajan feel hasn't created deep financial fault lines?.
oldest example financial fault line.	What is the oldest example of financial fault lines? .
political pressure push extend compensate stagnating purchasing power.	What doesn't political pressure push to extend to compensate for stagnating purchasing power?.
given american economy tendency go "from bubble bubble".	What hasn't given the American economy a tendency to go "from bubble to bubble"?.
negatively correlated duration economic growth.	What is negatively correlated to the duration of economic growth?.
high level inequality prevent beyond economic prosperity.	What do high levels of inequality  prevent beyond economic prosperity?.
happens gdp growth country income share top 20 percent increases, according imf staff economist.	What happens to the GDP growth of a country if the income share of the top 20 percent increases, according to IMF staff economists? .
increase income share bottom 20 percent people society result.	What does an increase in the income share of the bottom 20 percent of people of a society result in?.
matter economic growth.	Who matters the most for economic growth?.
positively correlated duration economic growth.	What is positively correlated to the duration of economic growth?.
low level inequality prevent beyond economic prosperity.	What do low levels of inequality prevent beyond economic prosperity?.
happens gdp growth country income share top 20 percent decreases, according imf staff economist.	What happens to the GDP growth of a country if the income share of the top 20 percent decreases, according to IMF staff economists? .
decrease income share bottom 20 percent people society result.	What does an decrease in the income share of the bottom 20 percent of people of a society result in?.
matter least economic growth.	Who matters the least for economic growth?.
david castlles-quintana vicente royuela living.	What do David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living?.
increasing inequality harm.	What does increasing inequality harm?.
persistent unemployment negative effect.	What was persistent unemployment have a negative effect on?.
unemployment harm growth.	Why does unemployment harm growth?.
policy try control unemployment support economic growth reduce.	Policies which try to control unemployment support economic growth because they reduce what?.
david castlles-quintana vicente royuela living.	What don't David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living?.
decreasing inequality harm.	What does decreasing inequality harm?.
persistent unemployment positive effect.	What was persistent unemployment have a positive effect on?.
unemployment help growth.	Why does unemployment help growth?.
policy try control unemployment support economic growth increase.	Policies which try to control unemployment support economic growth because they increase what?.
stiglitz present 2009 regarding global inequality.	What did Stiglitz present in 2009 regarding global inequality?.
inequality prevent growth.	How does inequality prevent growth?.
branko milanovic joseph stiglitz.	What are both Branko Milanovic and Joseph Stiglitz?.
main reason shift view income inequality harm growth.	What has been the main reason for the shift to the view that income inequality harms growth?.
become secret economic growth.	What has become the secret to economic growth?.
stiglitz present 2008 regarding global inequality.	What did Stiglitz present in 2008 regarding global inequality?.
inequality help growth.	How does inequality help growth?.
branko milanovic joseph stiglitz.	What aren't both Branko Milanovic and Joseph Stiglitz?.
main reason shift view income inequality help growth.	What has been the main reason for the shift to the view that income inequality helps growth?.
galor zeria show new information inequality.	When did Galor and Zeria show new information about inequality?.
inequality presence credit market imperfection kind effect human capital formation.	Inequality in the presence of credit market imperfections has what kind of effect on human capital formation?.
1996 study perotti examine.	What did a 1996 study by Perotti examine?.
inequality associated higher level.	What is inequality associated with higher levels of?.
extremely unequal society tend.	What do extremely unequal societies tend to be?.
galor zeria show old information inequality.	When did Galor and Zeria show old information about inequality?.
nequality presence credit market perfection kind effect human capital formation.	nequality in the presence of credit market perfections has what kind of effect on human capital formation?.
1969 study perotti examine.	What did a 1969 study by Perotti examine?.
inequality associated lower level.	What is inequality associated with lower levels of?.
extremely equal society tend.	What do extremely equal societies tend to be?.
institution robert barro hail.	What institution does Robert Barro hail from?.
barro found little relation income inequality rate.	Barro found there is little relation between income inequality and rates of what?.
high level inequality growth poor country.	What does high levels of inequality do to growth in poor countries?.
high level inequality economic growth richer country.	What does high levels of inequality do for economic growth in richer countries?.
study conducted swedish county.	When was a study conducted of Swedish counties?.
institution robert barro hail.	What institution doesn't Robert Barro hail from?.
barro found much relation income inequality rate.	Barro found there is much relation between income inequality and rates of what?.
high level inequality growth rich country.	What does high levels of inequality do to growth in rich countries?.
low level inequality economic growth richer country.	What does low levels of inequality do for economic growth in richer countries?.
study conducted swedish county.	When wasn't a study conducted of Swedish counties?.
study income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming.	What have studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming?.
kuznets curve say economic development, inequality decrease.	The Kuznets curve says with economic development, inequality will decrease after what?.
challenge notion kuznets curve hypothesis.	Who challenges the notion of the Kuznets curve hypothesis?.
what's thomas piketty's job.	What's Thomas Piketty's job?.
piketty feel biggest factor reducing inequality 1914 1945.	What does Piketty feel was the biggest factors in reducing inequality between 1914 to 1945?.
study income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming.	What haven't studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming?.
kuznets curve say economic development, inequality increase.	The Kuznets curve says with economic development, inequality will increase after what?.
accepts notion kuznets curve hypothesis.	Who accepts the notion of the Kuznets curve hypothesis?.
thomas piketty's job.	What isn't Thomas Piketty's job?.
piketty feel biggest factor reducing inequality 1941 1945.	What does Piketty feel was the biggest factors in reducing inequality between 1941 to 1945?.
theory developed suggesting inequality may positive effect economic development.	When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some positive effect on economic development?.
according 1955 review, saving wealthy thought offset.	According to a 1955 review, what were savings by the wealthy thought to offset?.
2013 report nigeria suggest growth done.	What does a 2013 report on Nigeria suggest it's growth has done?.
long take effect manifest change economic growth.	How long does it take for the effects to manifest as changes to economic growth?.
longer growth spell associated.	What are longer growth spells associated with?.
theory developed suggesting inequality may negative effect economic development.	When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some negative effect on economic development?.
according 1954 review, saving wealthy thought offset.	According to a 1954 review, what were savings by the wealthy thought to offset?.
2003 report nigeria suggest growth done.	What does a 2003 report on Nigeria suggest it's growth has done?.
long take effect manifest change economic growth.	How long doesn't it take for the effects to manifest as changes to economic growth?.
shorter growth spell associated.	What are shorter growth spells associated with?.
need made ensure poorer member society participate economic growth.	What needs to be made to ensure poorer members of society can participate in economic growth?.
growth elasticity poverty depend.	What can the growth elasticity of poverty depend on?.
take country high inequality longer achieve.	What does it take a country with high inequality longer to achieve?.
ban ki-moon secretary general.	What was Ban Ki-Moon the Secretary General of?.
economic growth sufficient progress.	What isn't economic growth sufficient for progress on?.
need made ensure richer member society participate economic growth.	What needs to be made to ensure richer members of society can participate in economic growth?.
growth elasticity poverty depend.	What can the growth elasticity of poverty not depend on?.
take country high inequality longer achieve.	What doesn't it take a country with high inequality longer to achieve?.
ban ki-moon secretary general.	What was Ban Ki-Moon not the Secretary General of?.
economic growth insufficient progress.	What isn't economic growth insufficient for progress on?.
held outside formal legal ownership registration system many developing country.	What is held outside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries?.
unregistered property held informal form.	How is unregistered property held in informal form?.
excessive bureaucratic red tape one reason type ownership.	Excessive bureaucratic red tape is one of the reasons for what type of ownership?.
country many step take build government land.	In some countries over how many steps can it take to build on government land?.
sometimes take 14 year get permission build.	What can it sometimes take up to 14 years to get permission to build on?.
held inside formal legal ownership registration system many developing country.	What is held inside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries?.
registered property held informal form.	How is registered property held in informal form?.
excessive bureaucratic red tape one reason type ownership.	Excessive bureaucratic red tape isn't one of the reasons for what type of ownership?.
country many step take build government land.	In all countries over how many steps can it take to build on government land?.
sometimes take 41 year get permission build.	What can it sometimes take up to 41 years to get permission to build on?.
number researcher think shortage caused part income inequality.	What do a number of researchers think a shortage of is caused in part by income inequality?.
decreased number 1984 1991.	What decreased in number between 1984 and 1991?.
demand rental decrease.	Why did the demand for rentals decrease?.
drove increased rental price east new york.	What drove increased rental prices in East New York?.
combined ricing price make difficult impossible poor people keep pace.	What combined with ricing prices to make it difficult or impossible for poor people to keep pace?.
number researcher think shortage caused part income inequality.	What do a number of researchers think a shortage of isn't caused in part by income inequality?.
decreased number 1948 1991.	What decreased in number between 1948 and 1991?.
demand rental increase.	Why did the demand for rentals increase?.
drove decreased rental price east new york.	What drove decreased rental prices in East New York?.
combined lowering price make difficult impossible poor people keep pace.	What combined with lowering prices to make it difficult or impossible for poor people to keep pace?.
certain cost difficult avoid shared.	How are the certain costs which are difficult to avoid shared?.
lower income often unable manage.	What are those with lower incomes often unable to manage?.
term middle income earner aspire obtain standard living people wealthier.	What is the term when middle income earners aspire to obtain the same standards of living as people wealthier than themselves?.
one method achieving aspirational consumption.	What is one method of achieving aspirational consumption?.
people take debt, lead potentially.	When people take on debt, it leads potentially to what?.
certain cost easy avoid shared.	How are the certain costs which are easy to avoid shared?.
higher income often unable manage.	What are those with higher incomes often unable to manage?.
term top income earner aspire obtain standard living people wealthier.	What is the term when top income earners aspire to obtain the same standards of living as people wealthier than themselves?.
one method achieving perspirational consumption.	What is one method of achieving perspirational consumption?.
people get rid debt, lead potentially.	When people get rid of debt, it leads potentially to what?.
economic inequality smaller, waste pollution.	When economic inequality is smaller, more waste and pollution is?.
would lower fewer people.	What would be lower if there were fewer people?.
current high level population large impact.	What does the current high level of population have a large impact on?.
could human inequality addressed without resulting increase environmental damage.	How could human inequality be addressed without resulting in an increase of environmental damage?.
political inequality smaller, waste pollution.	When political inequality is smaller, more waste and pollution is?.
would higher fewer people.	What would be higher if there were fewer people?.
current low level population large impact.	What does the current low level of population have a large impact on?.
economic inequality larger, waste pollution.	When economic inequality is larger, more waste and pollution is?.
could human inequality addressed without resulting decrease environmental damage.	How could human inequality be addressed without resulting in an decrease of environmental damage?.
vast disparity wealth attributed socialist.	What is the vast disparities in wealth attributed to by Socialists?.
private ownership create situation.	What does private ownership create a situation of?.
type income vast majority population dependent.	What type of income is the vast majority of the population dependent on?.
socialist think mean production owned.	How do socialists think the means of production should be owned?.
would income differential individual contribution relevant social product.	What would income differentials be if individual contributions were relevant to the social product?.
vast disparity wealth attributed socialist.	What is the vast disparities in wealth not attributed to by Socialists?.
private ownership create situation.	What doesn't private ownership create a situation of?.
type income vast majority population dependent.	What type of income is the vast majority of the population not dependent on?.
socialist think mean production owned.	How do socialists think the means of production shouldn't be owned?.
would income differential individual contribution relevant social product.	What would income differentials be if individual contributions weren't relevant to the social product?.
argues government redistributes wealth force.	Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by force?.
usual form government's wealth redistribution.	What is the usual form of the government's wealth redistribution? .
ideal moral society, would citizen free.	In an ideal moral society, what would all citizens be free from?.
modern economic inequality created.	How were some modern economic inequalities created?.
inequality wealth justified, according john rawls.	When are inequalities in wealth justified, according to John Rawls?.
argues government redistributes wealth peace.	Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by peace?.
unusual form government's wealth redistribution.	What is the unusual form of the government's wealth redistribution? .
ideal moral society, would citizen free.	In an ideal moral society, what would no citizens be free from?.
modern economic inequality destroyed.	How were some modern economic inequalities destroyed?.
inequality wealth justified, according john rawls.	When aren't inequalities in wealth justified, according to John Rawls?.
capability approach look poverty form.	What does the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of?.
capability approach, grow income considered mean end rather.	In the capabilities approach, grow and income are considered a means to an end rather than what?.
goal capability approach.	What is the goal of the capabilities approach?.
would capability approach achieve goal.	How would the capabilities approach achieve it's goal?.
definition agency relates capability.	What is the definition of agency as it relates to capabilities? .
capability approach look poverty form.	What doesn't the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of?.
capability approach, grow income considered mean end rather.	In the capabilities approach, grow and income aren't considered a means to an end rather than what?.
goal incapability approach.	What is the goal of the incapabilities approach?.
capability approach achieve goal.	How wouldn't the capabilities approach achieve it's goal?.
definition agency unrelates incapability.	What is the definition of agency as it unrelates to incapabilities? .
happens person's capability aer lowered, relates income.	What happens when a person's capabilities aer lowered, as it relates to their income?.
old, ill man.	What can and old, ill man not do?.
issue may prevent woman working outside home receiving education.	What issues may prevent women from working outside the home or receiving education?.
would rampant violence prevent people going work.	Why would rampant violence prevent people from going to work?.
people work towards denied functionings, capability agency.	What can people work towards if they aren't denied their functionings, capabilities and agency?.
happens person's capability aer raised, relates income.	What happens when a person's capabilities aer raised, as it relates to their income?.
old, ill man.	What can and old, ill man do?.
issue can't prevent woman working outside home receiving education.	What issues can't prevent women from working outside the home or receiving education?.
rampant violence prevent people going work.	Why wouldn't rampant violence prevent people from going to work?.
people work towards denied functionings, capability agency.	What can people work towards if they are denied their functionings, capabilities and agency?.
kind university university chicago.	What kind of university is the University of Chicago?.
university chicago established.	When was the University of Chicago established?.
many professional school university chicago.	How many professional schools does the University of Chicago have?.
many academic research division university chicago.	How many academic research divisions does the University of Chicago have?.
many student university chicago enlisted.	How many students does the University of Chicago have enlisted?.
city pritzker home university.	The city of Pritzker is home to which University?.
nearly 7,000 student enrolled.	Nearly 7,000 students are enrolled where?.
established 1809.	What was established in 1809?.
uchicago simply chicago, another term university graham business.	Other than UChicago or simply Chicago, what is another term for the University of Graham Business?.
type school city harris well known.	What types of other schools is the city of Harris well known for?.
university chicago scholar played major part development.	University of Chicago scholars played a major part in what development?.
helped develop first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction.	Who helped develop the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction?.
first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction located.	Where is the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction located?.
name largest university press u.s.	What is the name of the largest university press in the U.S?.
year barack obama presidential center finished.	In what year will the Barack Obama Presidential Center be finished?.
development university biological physic played lead role.	What development has the University of Biological Physics played a lead role in?.
world's first religion department help develop.	What world's first did the religion department help to develop?.
field world's first synthetically produced nuclear reaction occur.	Under which field did the world's first synthetically produced nuclear reaction occur?.
name smallest university press u.	What is the name of the smallest university press in the US?.
stagg presidential center set finished year.	The Stagg Presidential Center is set to be finished in what year?.
society founded university chicago.	What society founded the University of Chicago?.
person helped establish school donation.	What person helped establish the school with a donation?.
first president university chicago.	Who was the first president of the University of Chicago?.
year university's first president given position.	What year was the university's first president given his position? .
year first class taught university chicago.	What year was the first class taught at the University of Chicago?.
known poorest man history.	Who is known as the poorest man in all history?.
year university maynard incorporated.	In what year was the University of Maynard incorporated?.
year robert harper become first president university.	In what year did Robert Harper become the first president of the University?.
year u c become one 7 founding member association chicago university.	In what year did the U of C become one of 7 founding members of the Association of Chicago Universities?.
year last class held university.	In what year were the last classes held in the university?.
donated property university chicago.	Who donated property to the University of Chicago?.
helped pay university's first building structure.	Who helped pay for the university's first building structure? .
name first building built campus ground.	What was the name of the first building built on campus grounds?.
much silas b. cobb pledge university.	How much did Silas B. Cobb pledge to the university?.
name donor helped establish hutchinson common.	What is the name of the donor who helped establish the Hutchinson Commons?.
year walker museum create incorporate u c coed institution.	In what year did the Walker Museum create and incorporate the U of C as a coed institution?.
year clay bartlett donate land marshall field.	In what year did Clay Bartlett donate land by Marshall Field?.
financed original board trustee.	Who financed the original board of trustees?.
george c. walker served trustee, treasurer donor.	George C. Walker served as trustee, treasurer and donor of what?.
outlined who's donation could used building.	It was outlined that who's donations could only be used for buildings?.
1890, university decide team.	In 1890, who did the university decide to team up with?.
year university team shimer college.	What year did the university team up with Shimer College?.
university agreed grant degree graduate affiliate schoos.	The university agreed to grant a degree to any graduate of affiliate schoos that did what?.
disliked affiliate program.	Who disliked the affiliate program?.
year affiliate program end.	In what year did the affiliate program end?.
decade u c affiliate numerous national college.	In what decade did the U of C affiliate with numerous national colleges?.
shimer university located illinois city.	Shimer University is located in which Illinois city?.
school u c agree provide book supply free charge.	To what schools did the U of C agree to provide books and supplies free of charge?.
year u c associate kalamazoo college, located mount carroll.	In what year did the U of C associate with Kalamazoo College, located in Mount Carroll?.
university's 5th president.	Who was the university's 5th president?.
year university's 5th president granted position.	In what year was the university's 5th president granted his position?.
long 5th president's tenure last.	How long did the 5th president's tenure last?.
5th president university decide get rid football program.	Why did the 5th president of the university decide to get rid of the football program?.
name given undergraduate college's liberal-arts curriculum.	What was the name given to the undergraduate college's liberal-arts curriculum?.
year fourth president, robert maynard hutchins take office.	In what year did the fourth president, Robert Maynard Hutchins take office?.
university undergo hutchins 33 year tenure.	What did the university undergo during Hutchins 33 year tenure?.
hutchins eliminate hospital university.	Why did Hutchins eliminate hospitals from the university?.
year hutchins propose plan combine u c common core.	In what year did Hutchins propose a plan to combine the U of C with Common Core?.
who's tenure university chicago hospital system destroyed.	During who's tenure was the University of Chicago Hospitals system destroyed?.
year university first see drop application.	In what year did the university first see a drop in applications?.
university see drop applicant.	Why did the university see a drop in applicants? .
shimer college student allowed transfer university chicago.	When were Shimer College students allowed to transfer to the University of Chicago?.
urban renewal project intended help resident neighborhood.	The urban renewal project was intended to help the residents of what neighborhood?.
early entrant program potential student.	What did the early entrant program do for potential students?.
decade increase student application.	During which decade was there an increase in student applications?.
student application increase 1950s.	Why did student applications increase during the 1950s?.
happened number student application 1920s.	What happened to the number of student applications during the 1920s?.
student enrollment increased result increased crime poverty neighborhood.	Student enrollment increased as a result of increased crime and poverty in which neighborhood?.
like university hyde park, shimer college 10 school adopt.	Like the University of Hyde Park, what did Shimer College and 10 other schools adopt?.
year student decide occupy president's office.	In what year did student decide to occupy the president's office?.
made student decide occupy president's office protest.	What made the student decide to occupy the president's office in protest?.
year kalven report issued.	In what year was the Kalven Report issued?.
many page kalven report statement.	How many pages was the Kalven Report statement?.
policy kelven report contain.	What policy did the Kelven Report contain?.
decade university experience student rest.	During which decade did the university experience student rest?.
vice president 1962.	Who was the vice president in 1962?.
who's office student occupy protest rental policy 1965.	Who's office did students occupy in a protest over rental policies in 1965?.
year darfur report issued.	In what year was the Darfur Report issued?.
three page kalven report issued year.	The three page Kalven Report was issued in which year?.
university decide start multimillion-dollar expansion project.	When did the university decide to start multimillion-dollar expansion projects?.
institute university announced everyone 2008.	What institute did the university announced to everyone in 2008?.
much milton friedman institute roughly cost.	How much did the Milton Friedman Institute roughly cost?.
building held milton friedman institute.	What buildings held the Milton Friedman Institute?.
decide make large donation university's booth school business.	Who decide to make a very large donation to the university's Booth School of Business?.
decade university begin several thousand dollar expansion project.	In which decade did the university begin several thousand dollar expansion projects?.
plan harris friedman institute announced.	When were plans for the Harris Friedman Institute announced?.
planned occupy chicago business booth, much milton friedman institute estimated cost.	Planned to occupy the Chicago Business Booth, how much is the Milton Friedman Institute estimated to cost?.
donated half billion dollar university's booth school business.	Who donated a half billion dollars to the university's Booth School of Business?.
year pearson friedman donate $300 million booth school business.	In what year did Pearson Friedman donate $300 million to the Booth School of Business?.
first building university built know today.	What are the first buildings the university built knows as today?.
many quadrangle main quadrangle.	How many quadrangles does the Main Quadrangles have?.
helped designed main quadrangle.	Who helped designed the Main Quadrangles?.
mitchell tower designed look like oxford tower.	The Mitchell Tower is designed to look like what Oxford tower?.
hutchinson hall designed look like oxford hall.	Hutchinson Hall was designed to look like what Oxford hall?.
first building university oxford known.	The first buildings of the University of Oxford are known as what?.
main gothic designed.	Who were the Main Gothics designed by?.
second building u c known.	The second buildings of the U of C are known as what?.
main quadrangle piece master plan conceived many oxford university trustee.	The Main Quadrangles were a piece of a master plan conceived by how many Oxford University trustees?.
decade campus start look modern.	During what decade did the campus start to look more modern?.
assigned design second master plan.	Who was assigned to design a second master plan?.
administration ludwig mies van der rohe designa buiding.	What administration did Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designa buiding?.
public policy school found home building ludwig mies van der rohe designed.	What public policy school found it's home in the building that Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designed?.
gerald ratner athletics center constructed.	When was the Gerald Ratner Athletics Center constructed?.
decade modern style give way gothic style campus.	After which decade did modern styles give way to Gothic styles on campus?.
year owings contracted develop second master plan.	In what year was Owings contracted to develop a second master plan?.
eero saarinen contracted develop 2011.	What was Eero Saarinen contracted to develop in 2011?.
third master plan led construction building.	The third master plan led to the construction of buildings where?.
year gerald palevsky athletic common developed.	In which year was the Gerald Palevsky Athletic Commons developed?.
location booth school business found.	What other locations can the Booth School of Business be found?.
center paris located near river.	The Center in Paris is located near what river?.
university established center beijing year.	The university established a center in Beijing in what year?.
university's center beijing located next school's campus.	The university's center in Beijing is located next to what school's campus?.
year university open center hong kong.	What year did the university open a center in Hong Kong?.
paris school business campus.	Where does the Paris School Of Business have campuses?.
campus located right bank seine.	Which campus is located on the right banks of the Seine?.
campus host graduate student program located bank seine.	Which campus hosts graduate only student programs and is located on the banks of the Seine?.
year oldest addition new delhi opened.	In what year were the oldest additions in New Delhi opened?.
year oldest addition hong kong opened.	In what year were the oldest additions in Hong Kong opened?.
run university chicago.	Who runs the University of Chicago?.
many people belong university's board trustee.	How many people belong to the university's Board of Trustees?.
many vice president board trustee.	How many Vice Presidents are in the Board of Trustees?.
name chairman board trustee.	What is the name of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees?.
took isaac place provost 2016.	Who took Isaacs place as Provost in 2016?.
governs university zimmer.	Who governs the University of Zimmer?.
board president oversee.	What does the Board of Presidents oversee?.
along managing student laboratories, else board trustee.	Along with managing student laboratories, what else does the Board of Trustees do?.
body composed 2009 member.	Which body is composed of 2009 members?.
diermeier replaced provost.	Diermeier was replaced as Provost by who?.
university accredited.	Who is the university accredited by?.
academic body university made many division graduate.	The academic body of the university is made up of how many divisions of graduate?.
academic body university made many professional school.	The academic body of the university is made up of how many professional schools?.
many division graduate research university higher learning consist.	How many divisions of graduate research does the University of Higher Learning consist of?.
many professional school university higher learning consist.	How many professional schools does the University of Higher Learning consist of?.
u c tie several dependent institutions, including.	The U of C has ties to several dependent institutions, including?.
commission university chicago press accredited.	By which Commission is the University of Chicago Press accredited?.
academic body university chicago medical center consist.	What do the academic bodies of the University of Chicago Medical Center consist of?.
many academic major university grant total.	How many academic majors does the university grant in total?.
many academic minor university grant total.	How many academic minors does the university grant in total?.
many division make academic university.	How many divisions make up the academics of the university?.
division offer one branch study fit four.	What division offers more then one branch of studies that don't fit in with the other four?.
college grant bachelor science/arts degree 28 major many minor.	The College grants Bachelor of Science/Arts degrees in 28 majors and how many minors?.
college grant bachelor science/arts degree 50 minor many major.	The College grants Bachelor of Science/Arts degrees in 50 minors and how many majors?.
university's college grant academic major 30 subject area.	Which University's College grants academic majors in 30 subject areas?.
university's college grant academic minor 50 subject area.	Which University's College grants academic minors in 50 subject areas?.
college's university divided many division.	The college's University is divided into how many divisions?.
name university's core curriculum.	What is the name of the university's core curriculum?.
2012-2013, many student able take core class single time.	During 2012-2013, how many student were able to take the Core classes at a single time?.
uchicago claim kind learning experience compared university.	UChicago claims to have what kind of learning experience compared to other universities? .
guide state univeristy chicago known heavy workload academic difficulty.	What guide states the Univeristy of Chicago is known for their heavy workload and academic difficulty?.
undergraduate required take satisfy chicago core curriculum.	What are undergraduates required to take to satisfy the Chicago Core curriculum?.
time frame core class limited 15 student.	During what time frame were the core classes limited to only 15 students?.
2017, many course required core.	As of 2017, how many courses are required under Core?.
requiring 17 classes, else required core 2013-2014.	Other than requiring 17 classes, what else is required under Core as of 2013-2014?.
graduate course u c known.	What are graduate courses at the U of C known for?.
name private day school k-12 student university run.	What is the name of the private day school for K-12 students the university runs?.
name residential treatment program university run.	What is the name of the residential treatment program the university runs?.
many public charter school university run.	How many public charter schools does the university run?.
urban education institute help run.	What does the Urban Education Institute help run?.
hyde park day school located.	Where is the Hyde Park Day School located?.
apart mathematics postgraduate schools, else doe university run.	Apart from its mathematics and postgraduate schools, what else doe the university run?.
name public day school day care k-12 student.	What is the name for the public day school and day care for K-12 students?.
u c maintained since 1938.	What has the U of C maintained since 1938?.
name social science program used urban primary secondary school.	What is the name for the social science program used in urban primary and secondary schools?.
largest university press south side.	Which is the largest university press in the South Side?.
university chicago library system many library total.	The University of Chicago Library system has how many libraries in total?.
man volume university chicago library system hold.	How man volumes does the The University of Chicago Library system hold?.
name given university's main library.	What is the name given to the university's main library?.
year joe rika mansueto library constructed.	In what year was the Joe and Rika Mansueto Library constructed?.
many volume john crerar library roughly hold.	How many volumes does the John Crerar Library roughly hold?.
university's library system consists 12 library.	Which University's library system consists of 12 libraries?.
university's library system 10 millionvolumes.	Which University's library system has over 10 millionvolumes?.
university rank 9th number volume u.	Which University ranks having the 9th most number of volumes in the US?.
year d'angelo rika library built.	In what year was the D'Angelo and Rika Library built?.
many research institute university run campus.	How many research institutes does the university run on campus?.
many research center university run campus.	How many research centers does the university run on campus?.
name museum research center near eastern studies, owned university.	What is the name of the museum and research center for Near Eastern studies, that is owned by the university?.
lab university joint stake.	What lab does the university have a joint stake in? .
apache point observatory located.	Where is the Apache Point Observatory located?.
aside 113 research institutes, many research center u c operate.	Aside from 113 research institutes, how many research centers does the U of C operate?.
aside 12 research centers, many research institute u c operate.	Aside from 12 research centers, how many research institutes does the U of C operate?.
institute center near western study.	Which institute is a center for Near Western studies?.
illinois city marine biological laboratory located.	In which Illinois city is the Marine Biological Laboratory located?.
wood hole campus national opinion research center located.	On which Woods Hole campus is the National Opinion Research Center located?.
role economics university play major part.	What role in economics did the university play a major part in?.
name first self-sustained man-made nuclear reaction.	What was the name of the first self-sustained man-made nuclear reaction?.
name experiment tested life originated.	What was the name of the experiment that tested how life originated?.
rem sleep discovered.	When was REM sleep discovered?.
kleitman-aserinsky experiment conducted.	Why was the Kleitman-Aserinsky experiment conducted?.
miller-urey experiment conducted.	When was the Miller-Urey experiment conducted?.
kind sleep discovered u c 1947.	What kind of sleep was discovered at the U of C in 1947?.
experiment tested early life mar called.	What was the experiment that tested early life on Mars called?.
gave way chicago school psychology.	What gave way to the Chicago school of psychology?.
since year university offer doctorate music composition.	Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in music composition?.
since year university offer doctorate cinema & medium study.	Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in Cinema & Media studies?.
university start bachelor's degree program cinema & medium study.	When did the university start having a bachelor's degree program in Cinema & Media studies?.
university start bachelor's degree program theater & performance study.	When did the university start having a bachelor's degree program in theater & performance studies?.
around roughly many student enroll yearly creative performing art class.	Around roughly how many students enroll yearly in creative and performing arts classes?.
doctorate program offered since 1996.	What doctorate program has been offered since 1996?.
university master program visual arts, music subject.	The university has masters programs in visual arts, music and what other subjects?.
university bachelor program fine art visual art subject.	The university has bachelor programs in fine arts in visual arts and what other subject?.
type requirement college's common core require.	What type of requirement does the College's common core require?.
year williams logan center open.	In what year did the Williams and Logan Center open?.
fall quarter 2014, many student signed college.	In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the college?.
fall quarter 2014, many student signed university's four graduate division.	In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's four graduate divisions?.
fall quarter 2014, many student signed university's professional school.	In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's professional schools?.
fall quarter 2014, many student signed university's total.	In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's  in total?.
made 19% student body 2012 spring quarter.	Who made up 19% of the student body in the 2012 Spring Quarter? .
many student enrolled college spring 2014.	How many students enrolled at the College during the spring of 2014?.
university enrolled 3,468 student college many graduate division.	The University enrolled 3,468 students in the College  and how many in it's graduate divisions?.
many student university enroll five graduate division 2014.	How many students did the University enroll in its five graduate divisions in 2014?.
university enrolled 5,984 student college many professional school.	The University enrolled 5,984 students in the College  and how many in its professional schools?.
year college highest acceptance rate history.	What year did the College have the highest acceptance rate in its history?.
maroon apart association.	The Maroons are apart of what association?.
maroon compete league division.	The Maroons compete in what league division?.
university founding force behind conference.	The university was a founding force behind what conference?.
player first heisman trophy university.	What player first won the Heisman Trophy for the university?.
university eventually leave conference.	Why did the university eventually leave the conference?.
kind member university big twelve conference.	What kind of member what the University to the Big Twelve Conference?.
university reach sweet seventeen.	When did the University reach the Sweet Seventeen?.
robert hutchins become first heisman trophy winner.	When did Robert Hutchins become the first Heisman Trophy winner?.
jay berwanger win maynard trophy.	When did Jay Berwanger win the Maynard Trophy?.
president re-emphasize athletics university.	In what did the President re-emphasize athletics at the university?.
roughly many club ran university.	Roughly how many clubs are ran at the university?.
name organization charge running club university.	What is the name of the organization in charge of running the clubs at the university?.
club 118 tournament 15 national championship.	What club won 118 tournaments and 15 national championships?.
name country's longest continuously running student film society.	What is the name of the country's longest continuously running student film society?.
name student improvisational theater troupe.	What is the name of the student improvisational theater troupe?.
many club student university model united nation run.	How many clubs do the students at the University of Model United Nations run?.
118 club run student u c called collectively.	What are the over 118 clubs run by students at the U of C called collectively?.
rso nation team top ranked north america.	When was the RSO Nations team the top ranked in North America?.
model united nation team ranked second north america.	When was the Model United Nations team ranked second in North America?.
year model united nation team ranked first south america.	During what years was the Model United Nations team ranked first in South America?.
make student government.	Who makes up the Student Government?.
lead student government.	Who leads the Student Government?.
many vice president student board.	How many vice presidents are on the Student Board?.
roughly much student government's budget.	Roughly how much is the Student Government's budget?.
organization funded student government.	What organizations are funded by the student government?.
chicago government made type student.	The Chicago government is made up of what type of students?.
member sport club elected represent.	Who are members of the sports club elected to represent?.
student government led president chaired.	The student government is led by the president and chaired by who?.
annual budget scavenger hunt.	What is the annual budget for the Scavenger Hunt?.
many fraternity apart university.	How many fraternities are apart of the university?.
many sorority apart university.	How many sororities are apart of the university?.
name co-ed community service fraternity.	What is the name of the co-ed community service fraternity?.
many sorority belong national panhellenic conference.	How many sororities belong to the National Panhellenic Conference?.
many fraternity form university chicago interfraternity council.	How many fraternities form the University of Chicago Interfraternity Council?.
along 15 sororities, many fraternity u c.	Along with 15 sororities, how many fraternities does the U of C have?.
along 7 fraternities, many sorority u c.	Along with 7 fraternities, how many sororities does the U of C have?.
ten sorority member.	What are ten of the sororities members of?.
four fraternity form.	What do four of the fraternities form?.
year alpha phi omega estimate 10% student participated sororities/fraternities.	In what year did Alpha Phi Omega estimate that about 10% of students participated in sororities/fraternities?.
month university's scavenger hunt.	In what month is the university's scavenger hunt?.
year scavenger hunt begin.	In what year did the scavenger hunt begin?.
fota stand.	What does FOTA stand for?.
name winter festival held january based fitness.	What is the name of the winter festival held in January that is based on fitness? .
name university's summer festival.	What is the name of the university's summer festival?.
university held since 1963 large team find item list.	What has the university held since 1963 where large teams find items from a list?.
held since 1987, taking campus 7-10 day exhibition.	What has been held since 1987, taking over the campus for 7-10 days with exhibitions?.
held ever february university.	What is held ever February at the university?.
university's winter carnival concert called.	What is the university's winter carnival and concert called?.
debate organized u c since 1987.	Which debate has been organized by the U of C since 1987?.
microsoft ceo also alumnus university chicago.	What Microsoft CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?.
founder oracle corporation.	Who was the founder of the Oracle Corporation?.
third rich man america.	Who is the third riches man in America?.
goldman sachs ceo also alumnus university chicago.	What Goldman Sachs CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?.
founded mckinsey & company.	Who founded McKinsey & Company?.
founder microsoft third richest man america.	Who is the founder of Microsoft and the third richest man in America?.
ceo microsoft also served governor nj.	Who is the CEO of Microsoft and also served as Governor in NJ?.
founder chicago cub author first management accounting text book.	Who is the founder of the Chicago Cubs and author of the first management accounting text book?.
chairman microsoft well nba commissioner.	Who is the chairman of Microsoft as well as the NBA commissioner?.
serf microsoft mf global ceo.	Who serves as Microsoft and MF Global CEO?.
founder modern community organizing.	Who is the founder of modern community organizing?.
alumnus also obama's campaign adviser.	What alumni was also Obama's campaign adviser?.
alumnus also attorney general federal judge.	What alumni was also an Attorney General and a federal judge?.
alumnus also governor bank japan.	What alumni is also the Governor of the Bank of Japan?.
prohibition agent also alumnus university.	What prohibition agent was also an alumni at the university?.
attorney general obama campaign advisor.	Who is the Attorney General and Obama Campaign advisor?.
serf attorney general well top political advisor president.	Who serves as Attorney General as well as top political advisor to the President?.
12th prime minister poland.	Who is the 12th Prime Minister of Poland?.
governor bank justice.	Who is the Governor of the Bank of Justice?.
first japanese senator.	Who is the first Japanese Senator?.
alumnus member also write bestseller fall.	What alumni member also write the bestseller Before I Fall?.
name pulitzer prize novelist also university alumnus.	What is the name of the Pulitzer Prize novelist who was also a university alumni? .
alumnus wrote "the closing american mind".	What alumni wrote "The Closing of the American Mind"?.
alumnus wrote "the good war".	What alumni wrote "The Good War"?.
name american writer satirist also university alumnus.	What is the name of the American writer and satirist who is also a university alumni?.
pullitzer prize well nobel prize.	Who won the Pullitzer Prize as well as the Nobel Prize?.
wrote american time bestselling book titled "the closing american mind".	Who wrote the American Times bestselling book titled "The Closing of the American Mind"?.
wrote "the american war".	Who wrote "The American War"?.
wrote book titled "before fall" university bestseller.	Who wrote the book titled "Before I Fall" which was a University bestseller?.
wrote "the closing good war".	Who wrote "The closing of the Good War"?.
minimalist composer also university graduate.	What minimalist composer is also a university graduate?.
name bungie inc. founder also university graduate.	What is the name of the Bungie Inc. founder who is also a university graduate?.
video game series alex seropian make.	What video game series did Alex Seropian make?.
american actor also university graduate.	What American actor is also a university graduate?.
comedian also university graduate.	What comedian is also a university graduate? .
bungie founder developer dance video game.	Who is the Bungie founder and developer of the dance video game?.
actor also serial host.	Who is an actor and also Serial host?.
award winning photographer writer.	Who is an award winning photographer and writer?.
directed life.	Who directed Life Itself?.
astronomer also university alumnus member.	What astronomers is also a university alumni member?.
nasa astronaut also university alumnus member.	What NASA astronaut is also a university alumni member?.
popular environmentalist also university alumnus member.	What popular environmentalist is also a university alumni member?.
developed lithium-ion battery.	Who developed the lithium-ion battery?.
geochemist developed uranium-lead dating method lead-lead dating.	What geochemist developed the uranium-lead dating method into lead-lead dating?.
astronomer hamming code alumnus.	What astronomer is a Hamming Code alumni?.
dna astronaut also u c alumnus.	What DNA astronaut is also a U of C alumni?.
developer hamming battery.	Who was the developer of the Hamming battery?.
developed lithium ion battery let lead-lead dating.	Who developed the lithium ion battery which let to lead-lead dating?.
nobel memorial prize economic science winner also university alumnus member.	What Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner is also a university alumni member?.
british prime minister advisor also university alumnus member.	What British Prime minister advisor is also a university alumni member?.
first american win nobel memorial prize economic science.	Who was the first American to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences?.
university alumnus member known work portfolio theory.	What university alumni member was known for his work on portfolio theory?.
nobel memorial prize british science alumnus.	Which Nobel Memorial Prize in British Sciences is an alumni?.
u prime minister alumnus.	What US Prime Minister is an alumni?.
known working portfolio capture theory.	Who is known for working on portfolio capture theory?.
name british economist, theorist philosopher also author alumnus.	Name the British economist, theorist and philosopher who is also an author and alumni?.
responsible ancient interpretation organizational decision making.	Who was responsible for the ancient interpretation of organizational decision making?.
anthropologist also university alumnus member.	What anthropologists are also university alumni members?.
chess grandmaster also university alumnus.	What chess grandmaster is also a university alumni?.
conservative international relation scholar also university alumnus.	What conservative international relations scholar is also a university alumni?.
best known uncovering fossil john b watson.	Who are best known for uncovering the fossil of John B Watson?.
john b watson david graeber discover fossil.	Who did John B Watson and David Graeber discover a fossil of?.
male fossil known lucy discovered.	The male fossil known as Lucy was discovered by who?.
white house coordinator security planning also anthropologist.	Who is the White House Coordinator of Security Planning and also an anthropologist?.
established psychological school conservative international relation.	Who established the psychological school of conservative international relations?.
calculated speed light.	Who calculated the speed of light?.
discovered compton effect.	Who discovered the Compton Effect?.
invented first nuclear reactor.	Who invented the first nuclear reactor?.
also known father hydrogen bomb.	Who is also known at the father of the hydrogen bomb?.
second female nobel laureate.	Who was the second female Nobel laureate ?.
known calculating speed nuclear reaction.	Who is known for calculating the speed of nuclear reactions?.
discovered aa michelson effect.	Who discovered the AA Michelson effect?.
known inventing first elementary charge calculator.	Who is known for inventing the first elementary charge calculator?.
known father hydrogen atom.	Who is known as the father of the hydrogen atom?.
first female laureate winner.	Who was the first female laureate winner?.
egyptologist also apart university's faculty.	What Egyptologist was also apart of the university's faculty?.
mathematician also apart university's faculty.	What mathematician was also apart of the university's faculty?.
meteorologist also apart university's faculty.	What meteorologist was also apart of the university's faculty?.
developed actinide concept.	Who developed the actinide concept?.
cancer researcher also apart university's faculty.	What cancer researchers were also apart of the university's faculty?.
nobel prize winning prior novelist.	Who is a Nobel prize winning prior novelist?.
founder t. seaborg co..	Who is the founder of T. Seaborg and Co.?.
developer mckinsey concept.	Who is the developer of the McKinsey concept?.
nobel prize researcher former faculty member.	What Nobel Prize researchers are former faculty members?.
political philosopher, mathematician, author also former faculty member.	Who was a political philosopher, mathematician, author and also former faculty member?.
hank paulson former chairman ceo banking firm.	Hank Paulson is the former Chairman and CEO of what banking firm?.
governor india's central bank.	Who is the governor of India's central bank?.
shakespeare scholar currently university's faculty.	What Shakespeare scholar is currently on the university's faculty?.
well known political scientist currently university's faculty.	What well known political scientists are currently on the university's faculty?.
paleontologist currently university's faculty.	What paleontologists are currently on the university's faculty?.
current ceo chairman goldman sachs.	Who is the current CEO and chairmen of Goldman Sachs?.
current chairman president barack obama's council economic advisor.	Who is the current Chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisors?.
governs nobel prize central bank.	Who governs Nobel Prize central bank?.
wrote freakonomics also anthropologist.	Who wrote Freakonomics and is also an anthropologist?.
75th united state secretary treasury.	Who is the 75th United States Secretary of the Treasury?.
chinese name yuan dynasty.	What is the Chinese name for the Yuan dynasty?.
yuan dynasty's official name.	What is the Yuan dynasty's official name?.
started yuan dynasty.	Who started the Yuan dynasty?.
led mongolian borjigin clan.	Who led the Mongolian Borjigin clan?.
khan formally declare yuan dynasty.	When did Khan formally declare the Yuan dynasty?.
japanese name yuan dynasty.	What is the Japanese name for the Yuan dynasty?.
yuan dynasty's unofficial name.	 What is the Yuan dynasty's unofficial name?.
ended yuan dynasty.	 Who ended the Yuan dynasty?.
rejected mongolian borjigin clan.	 Who rejected the Mongolian Borjigin clan?.
khan formally reject yuan dynasty.	 When did Khan formally reject the Yuan dynasty?.
non-chinese empire yuan dynasty succeed.	What non-Chinese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed?.
dynasty came yuan.	What dynasty came before the Yuan?.
dynasty came yuan.	What dynasty came after the Yuan?.
kublai khan's grandfather.	Who was Kublai Khan's grandfather?.
non-japanese empire yuan dynasty succeed.	What non-Japanese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed?.
non-dynasty came yuan.	 What non-dynasty came before the Yuan?.
non-dynasty came yuan.	 What non-dynasty came after the Yuan?.
kublai khan's uncle.	 Who was Kublai Khan's uncle?.
khan establish great yuan.	When did Khan establish the Great Yuan?.
writing inspired name great yuan.	What writing inspired the name Great Yuan?.
yuan dynasty called mongolian.	What was the Yuan dynasty called in Mongolian?.
yeke mongghul ulus mean.	What does Yeke Mongghul Ulus mean?.
nominal title yuan emperor.	What nominal title did Yuan emperors have?.
khan disestablish great yuan.	When did Khan disestablish the Great Yuan?.
writing discouraged name great yuan.	 What writing discouraged the name Great Yuan?.
yuan dynasty called japanese.	 What was the Yuan dynasty called in Japanese?.
yeke mongghul ulus mean.	 What doesn't Yeke Mongghul Ulus mean?.
nominal title yuan emperor reject.	 What nominal title did Yuan emperors reject?.
tribe genghis khan unite.	Which tribes did Genghis Khan unite?.
genghis khan become great khan.	When did Genghis Khan become Great Khan?.
genghis's 3rd son.	Who was Genghis's 3rd son?.
mongke khan become great khan.	When did Mongke Khan become Great Khan?.
kublai khan's relation ogedei khan.	What was Kublai Khan's relation to Ogedei Khan?.
tribe genghis khan fight.	Which tribes did Genghis Khan fight against?.
genghis khan kill great khan.	 When did Genghis Khan kill Great Khan?.
genghis's 4th son.	 Who was Genghis's 4th son?.
mongke khan kill great khan.	 When did Mongke Khan kill Great Khan?.
kublai khan's opposition ogedei khan.	 What was Kublai Khan's opposition to Ogedei Khan?.
han chinese want help mongol fight.	Who did the Han Chinese want to help the Mongols fight?.
khitan leader defected mongol.	What Khitan leader defected to the Mongols?.
han chinese leader defected mongol.	What Han Chinese leader defected to the Mongols?.
many soldier tumen.	How many soldiers were in each Tumen?.
many khitan tumens.	How many Khitan Tumens were there?.
han japanese want help mongol fight.	Who did the Han Japanese want to help the Mongols fight?.
khitan leader rejected mongol.	 What Khitan leader rejected the Mongols?.
han chinese leader rejected mongol.	 What Han Chinese leader rejected the Mongols?.
many army tumen.	How many armies were in each Tumen?.
many khitan tumens.	 How many Khitan Tumens weren't there?.
ethnicity shi tianze.	What ethnicity was Shi Tianze?.
dynasty tianze live.	In what dynasty did Tianze live?.
kind interethnic marriage became common jin dynasty.	What kind of interethnic marriage became common in the Jin dynasty?.
shi tianze's father.	Who was Shi Tianze's father?.
dynasty zhang rhou help attack.	What dynasty did Zhang Rhou help attack?.
religion shi tianze.	What religion was Shi Tianze?.
dynasty tianze die.	 In what dynasty did Tianze die?.
kind interethnic marriage became uncommon jin dynasty.	What kind of interethnic marriage became uncommon in the Jin dynasty?.
shi tianze's uncle.	 Who was Shi Tianze's uncle?.
dynasty zhang rhou help defend.	 What dynasty did Zhang Rhou help defend?.
led mongol attack song dynasty.	Who led a Mongol attack on the Song dynasty?.
mongke khan attack song dynasty.	Where did Mongke Khan attack the Song dynasty?.
mongke khan die.	When did Mongke Khan die?.
challenged kublai khan's right succeed mongke khan.	Who challenged Kublai Khan's right to succeed Mongke Khan?.
chinese era name kublai adopt.	What Chinese era name did Kublai adopt?.
led mongol defense song dynasty.	 Who led a Mongol defense on the Song dynasty?.
mongke khan defend song dynasty.	 Where did Mongke Khan defend the Song dynasty?.
mongke khan born.	 When was Mongke Khan born?.
defended kublai khan's right succeed mongke khan.	 Who defended Kublai Khan's right to succeed Mongke Khan?.
chinese era name kublai reject.	 What Chinese era name did Kublai reject?.
kaidu's grandfather.	Who was Kaidu's grandfather?.
song dynasty continue cause problem kublai.	Where did the Song dynasty continue to cause problems for Kublai?.
kublai make ruler korea.	Who did Kublai make the ruler of Korea?.
korea border kublai's territory.	Where did Korea border Kublai's territory?.
li tan lead revolt.	When did Li Tan lead a revolt?.
kaidu's uncle.	Who was Kaidu's uncle?.
song dynasty continue peaceful kublai.	Where did the Song dynasty continue be peaceful with Kublai?.
kublai reject ruler korea.	 Who did Kublai reject as ruler of Korea?.
china border kublai's territory.	 Where did China border Kublai's territory?.
li tan reject revolt.	 When did Li Tan reject a revolt?.
kublai's government balance.	What did Kublai's government have to balance between?.
natural resource chinese government monopoly.	What natural resources did the Chinese government have a monopoly on?.
administrative division kublai leave unmodified.	What administrative division did Kublai leave unmodified?.
many societal class division plan kublai rejected.	How many societal class divisions were in the plan Kublai rejected?.
would lowest-ranked class.	Who would have been the lowest-ranked class?.
kublai's government balance.	What did Kublai's government not balance between?.
natural resource chinese government monopoly.	 What natural resources did the Chinese government not have a monopoly on?.
administrative division kublai leave modified.	 What administrative division did Kublai leave modified?.
many societal class division plan kublai approved.	 How many societal class divisions were in the plan Kublai approved?.
would highest-ranked class.	 Who would have been the highest-ranked class?.
mongol capital kublai moved.	Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai moved it?.
kublai move mongol capital.	Where did Kublai move the Mongol capital to?.
kublai move mongol capital.	When did Kublai move the Mongol capital?.
city later became beijing.	What city later became Beijing?.
ritual kublai follow help image.	What rituals did Kublai follow to help his image?.
mongol capital kublai destroyed.	Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai destroyed it?.
kublai refuse move mongol capital.	 Where did Kublai refuse to move the Mongol capital to?.
kublai fail move mongol capital.	 When did Kublai fail to move the Mongol capital?.
city later became alaska.	What city later became Alaska?.
ritual kublai follow destroy image.	 What rituals did Kublai follow to destroy his image?.
kind growth kublai encourage.	What kinds of growth did Kublai encourage?.
'pax mongolica' mean.	What does 'Pax Mongolica' mean?.
grand canal start.	Where did the Grand Canal start?.
kublai extend grand canal.	Where did Kublai extend the Grand Canal to?.
described kublai's china europe.	Who described Kublai's China to Europe?.
kind growth kublai discourage.	 What kinds of growth did Kublai discourage?.
'pal monqolica' mean.	What does 'Pal Monqolica' mean?.
grand canal begin.	 Where did the Grand Canal not begin?.
kublai shorten grand canal.	Where did Kublai shorten the Grand Canal to?.
described kublai's china asia.	 Who described Kublai's China to Asia?.
duke yansheng kong duanyou flee.	Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou flee with?.
jin dynasty begin.	When did the Jin dynasty begin?.
jin dynasty end.	When did the Jin dynasty end?.
appointed replacement duke yansheng kong duanyou.	Who was appointed as the replacement for Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou?.
many people quzhou descended confucius.	How many people in Quzhou are descended from Confucius?.
duke yansheng kong duanyou stay.	 Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou stay with?.
jip dynasty begin.	 When did the Jip dynasty begin?.
jip dynasty end.	 When did the Jip dynasty end?.
rejected replacement duke yansheng kong duanyou.	Who was rejected as the replacement for Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou?.
kublai build administration's strength.	Where did Kublai build his administration's strength?.
kublai attack xiangyang.	When did Kublai attack Xiangyang?.
area kublai trying capture attacking xiangyang.	What area was Kublai trying to capture by attacking Xiangyang?.
song dynasty's capital.	What was the Song dynasty's capital?.
final song emperor die.	How did the final Song emperor die?.
kublai tear administration's strength.	Where did Kublai tear down his administration's strength?.
kublai defend xiangyang.	 When did Kublai defend Xiangyang?.
area kublai trying capture defending xiangyang.	 What area was Kublai trying to capture by defending Xiangyang?.
song dynasty's capital.	 Where was the Song dynasty's capital?.
final song emperor begin.	 How did the final Song emperor begin?.
kublai's administration running money.	When was Kublai's administration running out of money?.
interfered kublai's second invasion japan.	What interfered with Kublai's second invasion of Japan?.
tran dynasty rule.	Where did the Tran dynasty rule?.
battle mongol defeated tran.	In what battle were the Mongols defeated by the Tran?.
mongol defeated tran.	When were the Mongols defeated by the Tran?.
kublai's administration running money.	 How was Kublai's administration running out of money?.
interfered kublai's third invasion japan.	 What interfered with Kublai's third invasion of Japan?.
tran dynasty rule.	How did the Tran dynasty rule?.
battle mongol joined tran.	 In what battle were the Mongols joined by the Tran?.
dali conquered yuan.	When was Dali conquered by the Yuan?.
kublai wanted succeed.	Who had Kublai wanted to succeed him?.
zhenjin die.	When did Zhenjin die?.
temur khan's chinese-style name.	What was Temur Khan's Chinese-style name?.
temur rule.	When did Temur rule?.
dali defended yuan.	When was Dali defended by the Yuan?.
kublai wanted precede.	 Who had Kublai wanted to precede him?.
zhenjin son.	 When did Zhenjin have a son?.
temur khan's japanese-style name.	 What was Temur Khan's Japanese-style name?.
temur die.	 When did Temur die?.
4th rule yuan dynasty.	Who was the 4th to rule the Yuan dynasty?.
mongol elite wish buyantu.	What did the Mongol elites wish Buyantu didn't do?.
mentored buyantu.	Who mentored Buyantu?.
government department buyantu shut.	What government department did Buyantu shut down?.
buyantu resume testing potential government employee.	When did Buyantu resume testing potential government employees?.
3rd rule yuan dynasty.	 Who was the 3rd to rule the Yuan dynasty?.
mongol elite wish buyantu.	 What did the Mongol elites wish Buyantu do?.
refused buyantu.	 Who refused Buyantu?.
government department buyantu approve.	 What government department did Buyantu approve?.
buyantu stop testing potential government employee.	When did Buyantu stop testing potential government employees?.
ayurbarwada's son.	Who was Ayurbarwada's son?.
geegen emperor.	When was Geegen the emperor?.
gegeen appoint grand chancellor.	Who did Gegeen appoint as grand chancellor?.
'da yuan tong zhi' mean.	What did 'Da Yuan Tong Zhi' mean?.
many rival prince involved assassinating gegeen.	How many rival princes were involved in assassinating Gegeen?.
ayurbarwada's daughter.	Who was Ayurbarwada's daughter?.
geegen senator.	 When was Geegen the senator?.
gegeen appoint grand senator.	 Who did Gegeen appoint as grand senator?.
'di yuan shi' mean.	 What did 'Di Yuan Shi' mean?.
many rival prince involved living gegeen.	 How many rival princes were involved in living with Gegeen?.
yesun temur die.	Where did Yesun Temur die?.
civil war ragibagh also called.	What was the civil war against Ragibagh also called?.
long banquet tugh temur kusala die.	How long after a banquet with Tugh Temur did Kusala die?.
thought killed tugh temur.	Who was thought to have killed Tugh Temur?.
took throne kusala's death.	Who took the throne after Kusala's death?.
yesun temur die.	How did Yesun Temur die.
civil war ragibagh never called.	 What was the civil war against Ragibagh never called?.
long banquet tugh temur kusala child.	 How long after a banquet with Tugh Temur did Kusala have a child?.
thought loved tugh temur.	 Who was thought to have loved Tugh Temur?.
took throne kusala's uprising.	Who took the throne after Kusala's uprising?.
tugh temur known.	What was Tugh Temur known for?.
academy tugh temur found.	What academy did Tugh Temur found?.
tugh temur found academy.	When did Tugh Temur found his academy?.
notable publication tugh's academy.	What was the most notable publication of Tugh's academy?.
religion tugh temur follow.	What religions did Tugh Temur follow?.
tugh temur known.	 What was Tugh Temur not known for?.
academy tugh temur destroy.	 What academy did Tugh Temur destroy?.
tugh temur destroy academy.	 When did Tugh Temur destroy his academy?.
least notable publication tugh's academy.	 What was the least notable publication of Tugh's academy?.
religion tugh temur reject.	 What religions did Tugh Temur reject?.
tugh temur die.	When did Tugh Temur die?.
chinese-style name rinchinbal use.	What Chinese-style name did Rinchinbal use?.
old toghun temur became emperor.	How old was Toghun Temur when he became emperor?.
many successor kublai toghun last.	How many successors of Kublai was Toghun the last of?.
dynasties' history officially documented toghun's reign.	Which dynasties' histories were officially documented during Toghun's reign?.
tugh temur born.	When was Tugh Temur born?.
chinese-style name rinchinbal reject.	 What Chinese-style name did Rinchinbal reject?.
old toghun temur became senator.	 How old was Toghun Temur when he became senator?.
many successor kublai toghun first.	 How many successors of Kublai was Toghun the first of?.
dynasties' history unofficially documented toghun's reign.	Which dynasties' histories were unofficially documented during Toghun's reign?.
problem yuan dynasty near end.	What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its end?.
kublai's successor lose control rest mongol empire.	Why did Kublai's successors lose control of the rest of the Mongol empire?.
later yuan emperor isolated.	Who were later Yuan emperors isolated from?.
yuan army weak stop.	What were the Yuan armies too weak to stop?.
later yuan emperor disinterested.	What were later Yuan emperors disinterested in?.
problem yuan dynasty near beginning.	What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its beginning?.
kublai's successor win control rest mongol empire.	 Why did Kublai's successors win control of the rest of the Mongol empire?.
later yuan emperor isolated.	 Who were later Yuan emperors isolated with?.
yuan army strong stop.	 What were the Yuan armies too strong to stop?.
later yuan emperor interested.	What were later Yuan emperors interested in?.
yuan people suffer series natural disaster.	When did the Yuan people suffer a series of natural disasters?.
uprising began 1351.	What uprising began in 1351?.
toghun temur dismiss toghtogha.	Why did Toghun Temur dismiss Toghtogha?.
toghtogha tried defeat.	Who had Toghtogha tried to defeat?.
ming dynasty power.	When was the Ming dynasty in power?.
yuan people suffer series unnatural disaster.	 When did the Yuan people suffer a series of unnatural disasters?.
uprising ended 1351.	 What uprising ended in 1351?.
toghun temur approve toghtogha.	 Why did Toghun Temur approve Toghtogha?.
toghtogha tried defend.	 Who had Toghtogha tried to defend?.
ming dynasty power.	 When was the Ming dynasty out of power?.
encouraged trade yuan.	What encouraged trade under the Yuan?.
encouraged cultural exchange yuan.	What encouraged cultural exchange under the Yuan?.
yuan's persian ally.	What was the Yuan's Persian ally?.
crop introduced popularized yuan.	What crops were introduced or popularized in the Yuan?.
discouraged trade yuan.	What discouraged trade under the Yuan?.
discouraged cultural exchange yuan.	 What discouraged cultural exchange under the Yuan?.
yuan's persian enemy.	 What was the Yuan's Persian enemy?.
type musical instrument yuan bring china.	What type of musical instruments did the Yuan bring to China?.
besides confucianism, buddhism, islam, religion tolerated yuan.	Besides Confucianism, Buddhism, and Islam, what religions were tolerated during the Yuan?.
religion yuan discourage, support buddhism.	What religion did the Yuan discourage, to support Buddhism?.
type practice yuan reintroduce government.	What type of practices did the Yuan reintroduce in government?.
field study advanced yuan.	What fields of study were advanced during the Yuan?.
type musical instrument yuan keep china.	 What type of musical instruments did the Yuan keep out of China?.
besides confucianism, buddhism, islam, religion tolerated yuan.	Besides Confucianism, Buddhism, and Islam, what religions were not tolerated during the Yuan?.
religion yuan encourage, support buddhism.	 What religion did the Yuan encourage, to support Buddhism?.
type practice yuan introduce government.	 What type of practices did the Yuan introduce in government?.
field study advanced yuan.	 What fields of study were not advanced during the Yuan?.
first known european visit china return.	Who was the first known European to visit China and return?.
polo call yuan capital.	What did Polo call the Yuan capital?.
english title polo's book.	What was the English title of Polo's book?.
italian title polo's book.	What was the Italian title of Polo's book?.
suspect polo learned china instead actually visiting.	How did some suspect that Polo learned about China instead of by actually visiting it?.
last known european visit china return.	Who was the last known European to visit China and return?.
polo call yuan semi-capital.	What did Polo call the Yuan semi-capital?.
spanish title polo's book.	 What was the Spanish title of Polo's book?.
irish title polo's book.	 What was the Irish title of Polo's book?.
astronomer worked kublai.	What astronomer worked for Kublai?.
accurate guo make reformed lunisolar calendar.	How accurate did Guo make the reformed lunisolar calendar?.
kublai prevent famine.	What did Kublai do to prevent famines?.
city grand canal reach yuan.	What city did the Grand Canal reach during the Yuan?.
major crop brought china west.	What major crop was brought to China from the west?.
astronomer hated kublai.	What astronomer hated Kublai?.
accurate guo make formed lunisolar calendar.	How accurate did Guo make the formed lunisolar calendar?.
kublai expediate famine.	 What did Kublai do to expediate famines?.
city grand canal never reach yuan.	 What city did the Grand Canal never reach during the Yuan?.
major crop brought japan west.	 What major crop was brought to Japan from the west?.
yuan first time china ruled.	The Yuan was the first time all of China was ruled by whom?.
mongol worship.	What did Mongols worship?.
legitimate dynasty came yuan.	What legitimate dynasty came before the Yuan?.
legitimate dynasty came yuan.	What legitimate dynasty came after the Yuan?.
chinese considered yuan legitimate dynasty, chinese think.	Some Chinese considered the Yuan a legitimate dynasty, but what did other Chinese think it was?.
yuan first time japan ruled.	The Yuan was the first time all of Japan was ruled by whom?.
mongol refuse worship.	 What did Mongols refuse to worship?.
illegitimate dynasty came yuan.	 What illegitimate dynasty came before the Yuan?.
illegitimate dynasty came yuan.	 What illegitimate dynasty came after the Yuan?.
culture part kublai's administration.	What cultures were part of Kublai's administration?.
dynasty inspired chinese-like element kublai's government.	What dynasties inspired the Chinese-like elements of Kublai's government?.
two kublai's chinese adviser.	Who were two of Kublai's Chinese advisers?.
kind division power kublai's government.	What kind of division of power did Kublai's government have?.
three part kublai's government.	What were the three parts of Kublai's government?.
culture part kublai's administration.	What cultures were not part of Kublai's administration?.
dynasty inspired japanese-like element kublai's government.	What dynasties inspired the Japanese-like elements of Kublai's government?.
third kublai's chinese adviser.	 Who was the third of Kublai's Chinese advisers?.
kind division power kublai's government never.	 What kind of division of power did Kublai's government never have?.
military control yuan.	Who had military control during the Yuan?.
six ministry existed.	When had the Six Ministries existed?.
exempt ministry justice.	Who were exempt from the Ministry of Justice?.
real military power yuan.	Who had no real military power during the Yuan?.
military control yuan.	 Who had military control during the Yuan?.
eight ministry existed.	 When had the Eight Ministries existed?.
exempt ministry justice.	 Who weren't exempt from the Ministry of Justice?.
real military power yuan.	 Who had no real military power after the Yuan?.
phags-pa script invented.	When was Phags-pa script invented?.
language used phags-pa script.	Which languages used the Phags-pa script?.
well mongol emperor know chinese.	How well did the Mongol Emperors know Chinese?.
mother emperor concubine.	The mother of which emperor was a concubine?.
tugh's chinese-style name.	What was Tugh's Chinese-style name?.
phags-pa script destroyed.	 When was Phags-pa script destroyed?.
language rejected phags-pa script.	Which languages rejected the Phags-pa script?.
poorly mongol emperor know spoken chinese.	 How poorly did the Mongol Emperors know spoken Chinese?.
father emperor concubine.	The father of which emperor was a concubine?.
tugh's japanese-style name.	 What was Tugh's Japanese-style name?.
year selling child slavery common among mongol.	By what year was selling children into slavery common among the Mongols?.
kublai ban international mongol slave trade.	When did Kublai ban the international Mongol slave trade?.
mongol garrison family earning money.	How were the Mongol garrison families earning money?.
year selling child slavery uncommon among mongol.	By what year was selling children into slavery uncommon among the Mongols?.
kublai ban international mongol slave trade.	 When didn't Kublai ban the international Mongol slave trade?.
mongol garrison family earning money.	How weren't the Mongol garrison families earning money?.
type art flourished yuan.	What type of arts flourished in the Yuan?.
art often practiced together artist.	Which arts were often practiced together by the same artists?.
dynasty shared artistic inspiration yuan.	What dynasty shared artistic inspiration with the Yuan?.
form poetry developed yuan.	What form of poetry was developed in the Yuan?.
popular type variety show yuan.	What was a popular type of variety show during the Yuan?.
type language flourished yuan.	What type of languages flourished in the Yuan?.
science often practiced together artist.	 Which sciences were often practiced together by the same artists?.
dynasty share artistic inspiration yuan.	 What dynasty didn't share artistic inspiration with the Yuan?.
form songwriting developed yuan.	 What form of songwriting was developed in the Yuan?.
khanate converted islam.	Which khanates had converted to Islam?.
religion kublai prefer.	Which religion did Kublai prefer?.
yuan's unofficial state religion.	What was the Yuan's unofficial state religion?.
government agency supervised buddhist monk.	What government agency supervised Buddhist monks?.
kublai's favorite sect tibetan buddhism.	What was Kublai's favorite sect of Tibetan Buddhism?.
khanate converted islam.	Which khanates had not converted to Islam?.
religion kublai reject.	 Which religion did Kublai reject?.
yuan's official state religion.	 What was the Yuan's official state religion?.
kublai's least favorite sect tibetan buddhism.	 What was Kublai's least favorite sect of Tibetan Buddhism?.
zhu shijie born.	When was Zhu Shijie born?.
zhu shijie die.	When did Zhu Shijie die?.
modern math concept zhu shijie work similar.	What modern math concept did Zhu Shijie do work similar to?.
type math advanced yuan.	What type of math was advanced during the Yuan?.
zhu publish 'jade mirror four unknowns'.	When did Zhu publish 'Jade Mirror of the Four Unknowns'?.
zhu shijie ruler.	When was Zhu Shijie ruler?.
zhu shijie get new job.	When did Zhu Shijie get a new job?.
modern math concept zhu shijie work different.	What modern math concept did Zhu Shijie do work different from?.
type math advanced yuan.	What type of math was not advanced during the Yuan?.
zhu publish 'jade mirror five unknowns'.	When did Zhu publish 'Jade Mirror of the Five Unknowns'?.
guo shoujing calendar.	What did Guo Shoujing do for calendars?.
gou use astronomy.	What did Gou use for astronomy?.
chinese name gou's calendar.	What was the Chinese name of Gou's calendar?.
english name gou's calendar.	What was the English name of Gou's calendar?.
gou's calendar become official calendar yuan.	When did Gou's calendar become the official calendar of the Yuan?.
guo shoujing calendar.	What did Guo Shoujing not do for calendars?.
gou use science.	 What did Gou use for science?.
chinese name gou's math.	 What was the Chinese name of Gou's math?.
english name gou's math.	 What was the English name of Gou's math?.
gou's calendar rejected official calendar yuan.	 When was Gou's calendar rejected as the official calendar of the Yuan?.
otachi.	Who were otachi?.
type medicine otachi focus.	What type of medicine did otachi focus on?.
type medicine mongol shaman use.	What type of medicine did Mongol shamans use?.
department kublai create train doctor.	What department did Kublai create to train doctors?.
confucian like medical field.	Why did Confucians like the medical field?.
potachi.	Who were potachi?.
type medicine otachi reject.	 What type of medicine did otachi reject?.
type medicine non-mongol shaman use.	 What type of medicine did non-Mongol shamans use?.
department kublai create bother doctor.	 What department did Kublai create to bother doctors?.
confucian hate medical field.	Why did Confucians hate the medical field?.
many school medicine recognized china.	How many schools of medicine were recognized in China?.
yuan come 4 school medicine.	How did the Yuan come to have the 4 schools of medicine?.
chinese medicine spread.	How did Chinese medicine spread?.
technique chinese medicine include.	What techniques did Chinese medicine include?.
wei yilin die.	When did Wei Yilin die?.
many school medicine recognized japan.	How many schools of medicine were recognized in Japan?.
yuan come 8 school medicine.	 How did the Yuan come to have the 8 schools of medicine?.
chinese medicine stay one place.	 How did Chinese medicine stay in one place?.
technique chinese medicine never include.	What techniques did Chinese medicine never include?.
huihui.	What was huihui?.
founded office western medicine.	Who founded the Office of Western Medicine?.
office western medicine founded.	When was the Office of Western Medicine founded?.
aspect western medicine chinese dislike.	What aspect of Western medicine did the Chinese dislike?.
philosophy underlay chinese medicine.	What philosophies underlay Chinese medicine?.
hoho.	What was hoho?.
founded office eastern medicine.	Who founded the Office of eastern Medicine?.
office eastern medicine founded.	 When was the Office of Eastern Medicine founded?.
aspect western medicine chinese like.	 What aspect of Western medicine did the Chinese like?.
philosophy overlay chinese medicine.	 What philosophies overlay Chinese medicine?.
mongol acquire chinese printing technology.	How did the Mongols acquire Chinese printing technology?.
wrote nong shu.	Who wrote the Nong Shu?.
earthenware movable type invented.	When was earthenware movable type invented?.
ogedei's wife.	Who was Ogedei's wife?.
imperial library directorate established.	When was the Imperial Library Directorate established?.
mongol acquire japanese printing technology.	How did the Mongols acquire Japanese printing technology?.
rejected nong shu.	 Who rejected the Nong Shu?.
earthenware movable type destroyed.	 When was earthenware movable type destroyed?.
ogedei's husband.	 Who was Ogedei's husband?.
imperial library directorate established.	 When was the Imperial Library Directorate not established?.
yuan's paper money called.	What was the Yuan's paper money called?.
chao made.	What were chao made out of?.
yuan begin using bronze printing plate money.	When did the Yuan begin using bronze printing plates for its money?.
yuan used print money bronze plate.	What had the Yuan used to print its money before bronze plates?.
il-khanate experiment paper money.	When did the Il-khanate experiment with paper money?.
yuan's plastic money called.	What was the Yuan's plastic money called?.
show made.	What were show made out of?.
yuan begin using gold printing plate money.	When did the Yuan begin using gold printing plates for its money?.
yuan used print money plastic plate.	 What had the Yuan used to print its money before plastic plates?.
il-khanate stop experimenting paper money.	 When did the Il-khanate stop experimenting with paper money?.
mongolian system kublai's government compromise.	What Mongolian system did Kublai's government compromise with?.
chinese system kublai's government compromise.	What Chinese system did Kublai's government compromise with?.
semuren.	Who were the Semuren?.
unequal treatment chinese versus mongol yuan make dynasty seem.	How did the unequal treatment of Chinese versus Mongols in the Yuan make the dynasty seem?.
persian successful compared chinese yuan.	Where were Persians more successful compared to Chinese in the Yuan?.
mongolian system kublai's government uncompromise.	What Mongolian system did Kublai's government uncompromise with?.
chinese system kublai's government compromise.	 What Chinese system did Kublai's government not compromise with?.
samuron.	Who were the Samuron?.
equal treatment chinese versus mongol yuan make dynasty seem.	 How did the equal treatment of Chinese versus Mongols in the Yuan make the dynasty seem?.
mongol bring china administrator.	Who did the Mongols bring to China as administrators?.
mongol send bukhara administrator.	Who did the Mongols send to Bukhara as administrators?.
central asia han chinese move.	Where in Central Asia did the Han Chinese move?.
type work han central asia.	What types of work did the Han do in Central Asia?.
made governor samarqand.	Who was made Governor of Samarqand?.
mongol bring japan administrator.	Who did the Mongols bring to Japan as administrators?.
mongol send bukhara administrator.	 Who didn't the Mongols send to Bukhara as administrators?.
central asia han chinese move.	 Where in Central Asia didn't the Han Chinese move?.
type work han eastern asia.	 What types of work did the Han do in Eastern Asia?.
yuan policy muslim dislike.	What Yuan policies did Muslims dislike?.
jewish practice yuan ban.	What Jewish practice did the Yuan ban?.
founded ming dynasty.	Who founded the Ming dynasty?.
second meaning chinese word 'barracks'.	What was the second meaning of a Chinese word for 'barracks'?.
revolted ispah rebellion.	Who revolted in the Ispah Rebellion?.
yuan policy muslim like.	What Yuan policies did Muslims like?.
jewish practice yuan keep.	 What Jewish practice did the Yuan keep?.
founded ding dynasty.	 Who founded the Ding dynasty?.
second meaning japanese word 'barracks'.	 What was the second meaning of a Japanese word for 'barracks'?.
obediant ispah rebellion.	 Who was obediant in the Ispah Rebellion?.
thought yuan's social class system called social class.	Who thought that the Yuan's social class system shouldn't be called social classes?.
mote think yuan class system really represented.	What did Mote think the Yuan class system really represented?.
many chinese unexpected status.	There were many Chinese with what unexpected status?.
many mongol unexpected status.	There were many Mongols with what unexpected status?.
thought yuan's social class system called social class.	Who thought that the Yuan's social class system should be called social classes?.
mote think yuan class system represent.	 What did Mote think the Yuan class system didn't represent?.
many chinese expected status.	There were many Chinese with what expected status?.
many mongol expected status.	There were many Mongols with what expected status?.
part china people ranked higher class system.	Which part of China had people ranked higher in the class system?.
part china people ranked lower class system.	Which part of China had people ranked lower in the class system?.
southern chinese ranked lower.	Why were Southern Chinese ranked lower?.
northern chinese ranked higher.	Why were Northern Chinese ranked higher?.
yuan's increase commerce help.	Who did the Yuan's increase in commerce help?.
part japan people ranked higher class system.	Which part of Japan had people ranked higher in the class system?.
part japan people ranked lower class system.	Which part of Japan had people ranked lower in the class system?.
eastern chinese ranked lower.	 Why were Eastern Chinese ranked lower?.
western chinese ranked higher.	Why were Western Chinese ranked higher?.
yuan's decrease commerce help.	 Who did the Yuan's decrease in commerce help?.
mongol give control korea.	Who did the Mongols give control of Korea?.
uighur king qocho ranked.	Who was the Uighur King of Qocho ranked above?.
karluk kara-khanid ruler ranked.	Who was the Karluk Kara-Khanid ruler ranked above?.
uighur ranked higher mongol.	Why were the Uighurs ranked higher by the Mongols?.
mongol refuse control korea.	Who did the Mongols refuse control of Korea?.
uighur king qocho ranked.	 Who was the Uighur King of Qocho ranked below?.
karluk kara-khanid ruler ranked.	 Who was the Karluk Kara-Khanid ruler ranked below?.
uighur ranked lower mongol.	 Why were the Uighurs ranked lower by the Mongols?.
region china hebei part.	What region of China is Hebei part of?.
governed central region yuan.	Who governed the Central Region in the Yuan?.
central secretariat based.	Where was the Central Secretariat based?.
modern city khanbaliq become.	What modern city did Khanbaliq become?.
chinese name central secretariat.	What was the Chinese name for the Central Secretariat?.
region japan hebei part.	What region of Japan is Hebei part of?.
governed northern region yuan.	 Who governed the northern Region in the Yuan?.
central non-secretariat based.	Where was the Central non-Secretariat based?.
modern city khanbaliq become.	 What modern city did Khanbaliq not become?.
japanese name central secretariat.	 What was the Japanese name for the Central Secretariat?.
immune system protects organism.	The immune system protects organisms against what?.
agent immune system detects known.	What are the agents the immune system detects known as?.
part immune system protects brain.	Which part of the immune system protects the brain?.
separate neuroimmune system peripheral immune system human.	What separates the neuroimmune system and peripheral immune system in humans?.
agent detected immune system called.	What are the agents detected by the immune system called?.
two different type immunity.	What are the two different types of immunity?.
two major subsystem immune system.	What are the two major subsystems of the immune system?.
immune system brained known.	What is the immune system of the brained known as?.
system many biological structure process protect organism cold.	What is the system of many biological structures and processes that protect an organism from cold?.
example pathogen.	What is not an example of a pathogen?.
immune system unable distinguish healthy tissue.	What is the immune system unable to distinguish from healthy tissue?.
immune system stomach known.	What is the immune system of the stomach known as?.
connects peripheral immune system neuroimmune system.	What connects the peripheral immune system to the neuroimmune system?.
happens immune system le active normal.	What happens when the immune system less active than normal?.
term hyperactive immune system attack normal tissue.	What is the term for a hyperactive immune system that attacks normal tissues?.
field involves study immune system.	What field involves the study of the immune system?.
acquired condition result immunodeficiency human.	What acquired condition results in immunodeficiency in humans?.
caused disorder immune system.	What is not caused by disorders of the immune system?.
kind medicine cause autoimmunity.	What kind of medicine can cause autoimmunity?.
cause immune system treat foreign organism like normal tissue.	What causes the immune system to treat foreign organisms like normal tissues?.
condition cause immunodeficiency.	What is not a condition that causes immunodeficiency?.
rare autoimmune disease.	What is a rare autoimmune disease?.
nobel prize 1905.	Who won the Nobel Prize in 1905?.
robert koch prove cause infectious disease.	What did Robert Koch prove was the cause of infectious disease?.
virus walter reed discover.	What virus did Walter Reed discover?.
first known historical reference immunity.	When was the first known historical reference to immunity?.
science examines structure function brain.	What is a science that examines the structure and function of the brain?.
latest known reference immunity.	When is the latest known reference to immunity?.
scientist experimented snake venom 18th century.	What scientist experimented with snake venom in the 18th century?.
whose theory supported miasma theory.	Whose theories supported the miasma theory?.
robert koch discover yellow fever virus.	When did Robert Koch discover the yellow fever virus?.
type immune system found plant animal.	What type of immune systems are found in all plants and animals?.
immune system activated innate response.	What immune system is activated by the innate response?.
allows adaptive immune system react faster strongly subsequent time pathogen encountered.	What allows the adaptive immune system to react faster and more strongly each subsequent time a pathogen is encountered?.
first line defense pathogen prevents entering organism.	What is the first line of defense against pathogens that prevents them from entering an organism?.
expose organism infection.	What exposes organisms to infection?.
prevented entering organism.	What is not prevented from entering an organism?.
activated innate response vertebrate.	What is activated before the innate response in vertebrates?.
gotten rid pathogen eliminated.	What is gotten rid of after a pathogen has been eliminated?.
cause organism attack slowly weakly every time pathogen encountered.	What causes the organism to attack more slowly and weakly every time a pathogen is encountered?.
adaptive immune system must distinguish type molecule.	The adaptive immune system must distinguish between what types of molecules?.
molecule part body organism immunology.	What molecules are parts of the body of an organism in immunology?.
molecule recognized foreign immune system.	What molecules are recognized as foreign by the immune system?.
term shorthand antibody generator.	What term is shorthand for antibody generators?.
antigen bind order elicit response immune system.	Antigens bind to what in order to elicit a response of the immune system?.
depend immune system's ability distinguish self others.	What does not depend on the immune system's ability to distinguish between the self and others?.
one class self molecule.	What is a one class of self molecule?.
distinguished foreign substance immune system.	What can not be distinguished from foreign substances by the immune system?.
self molecule bind.	What do self molecules bind to?.
happens antigen fails bind immune receptor.	What happens when an antigen fails to bind to an immune receptor?.
part innate immune system identifies microbe trigger immune response.	What part of the innate immune system identifies microbes and triggers immune response?.
organisms, dominant system defense.	For most organisms, what is the dominant system of defense?.
pattern recognition receptor recognize component present broad group.	Pattern recognition receptors recognize components present in broad groups of what?.
innate immune system responds generic way, meaning.	The innate immune system responds in a generic way, meaning it is what?.
toxin fail enter organism encounter.	What do toxins that fail to enter an organism encounter?.
cause innate response disarmed.	What causes the innate response to be disarmed?.
kind cell fail send alarm signal.	What kind of cells fail to send out alarm signals?.
defense respond pathogen specific way.	What defenses respond to pathogens in a specific way?.
system give organism long lasting immunity pathogen.	What system gives an organism long lasting immunity against a pathogen?.
mechanical barrier insect protects insect.	What is a mechanical barrier in insects that protects the insect?.
example mechanical barrier leaf.	What is an example of a mechanical barrier on leaves?.
response protect lung mechanically ejecting pathogen respiratory system.	What responses protect the lungs by mechanically ejecting pathogens from the respiratory system?.
secreted respiratory tract trap microorganism.	What is secreted by the respiratory tract to trap microorganisms?.
flushing action expels pathogen eye.	The flushing action of what expels pathogens from the eyes?.
kind barrier protect organism infection.	What kind of barrier does not protect organisms from infection?.
example chemical barrier.	What is an example of a chemical barrier?.
last line defense infection.	What is the last line of defense against infection?.
ejects pathogen gastrointestinal tract.	What ejects pathogens from the gastrointestinal tract?.
example mechanical barrier.	What is not an example of a mechanical barrier?.
anitmicrobial peptide secreted skin called.	What are the anitmicrobial peptides secreted by the skin called?.
enzyme saliva antibacterial nature.	What enzymes in saliva are antibacterial in nature?.
semen contains order kill pathogen.	Semen contains what in order to kill pathogens?.
compound stomach protect ingested pathogen.	What compounds in the stomach protect against ingested pathogens?.
vaginal secretion serve chemical protective barrier following.	Vaginal secretions serve as a chemical protective barrier following what?.
respiratory tract secrete order promote infection.	What does the respiratory tract secrete in order to promote infection?.
enzyme antibacterial.	What enzyme is not an antibacterial?.
fluid enzyme found.	What fluids are enzymes not found in?.
vaginal secretion become le acidic.	When do vaginal secretions become less acidic?.
provides chemical protection pathogen.	What provides chemical protection to pathogens?.
serf biological barrier competing space food gi tract.	What serves as a biological barrier by competing for space and food in the GI tract?.
antibiotic target bacteria affect class organism.	Most antibiotics target bacteria and don't affect what class of organisms?.
probiotic flora found unpasteurized yogurt.	What probiotic flora is found in unpasteurized yogurt?.
commensal flora change specific condition environment gastrointestinal tract.	Commensal flora can change what specific conditions of their environment in the gastrointestinal tract?.
tract commensal flora help pathogen thrive.	What tracts does commensal flora help pathogens thrive in?.
compete commensal flora food space.	What does not compete with commensal flora for food and space?.
medicine lead decline fungi.	What medicine can lead to a decline in fungi?.
food upset balance microbial population.	What food upsets the balance of microbial populations?.
infection caused overgrowth bacteria.	What is an infection caused by an overgrowth of bacteria?.
one first response immune system infection.	What is one of the first responses the immune system has to infection?.
cause symptom inflammation.	What causes the symptoms of inflammation?.
compound released injured infected cells, triggering inflammation.	What compounds are released by injured or infected cells, triggering inflammation?.
eicosanoids include compound result fever blood vessel dilation.	Eicosanoids include what compounds that result in fever and blood vessel dilation?.
cytokine responsible communication white blood cell.	What cytokines are responsible for communication between white blood cells?.
one last response immune system infection.	What is one of the last responses of the immune system to infection?.
symptom caused inflammation.	What is not a symptom that is caused by inflammation?.
substance healthy cell produce.	What substances do healthy cells produce?.
rare cytokine.	What is a rare cytokine?.
chemical keep immune cell away site infection.	What chemical keeps immune cells away from the site of infection?.
type cell engulf eat pathogen foreign particle.	What type of cells engulf or eat pathogens and foreign particles?.
phagocyte called specific location.	Phagocytes can be called to a specific location by what?.
pathogen eaten phagocyte becomes trapped vesicle.	When a pathogen has been eaten by a phagocyte it becomes trapped in what vesicle?.
formed phagosome fuse lysosome.	What is formed when a phagosome fuses with a lysosome?.
phagocytosis first evolved mean.	Phagocytosis first evolved as means of doing what?.
patrol body looking phagocyte.	What patrols the body looking for phagocytes?.
drive phagocyte away specific area.	What drives phagocytes away from specific areas?.
phagocyte get stuck pathogen.	Where does a phagocyte get stuck in a pathogen?.
pathogen kill phagocyte.	How does the pathogen kill the phagocyte?.
role phagocytosis used acquire nutrient.	What was the role of phagocytosis before it was used to acquire nutrients?.
two type phagocyte travel body find invading pathogen.	What are two types of phagocytes that travel through the body to find invading pathogens?.
abundant kind phagocyte.	What are the most abundant kind of phagocyte?.
percentage leukocyte neutrophil represent.	What percentage of leukocytes do neutrophils represent?.
process neutrophil move towards site inflammation called.	What is the process in which neutrophils move towards the site of inflammation called?.
regulatory factor produced macrophage.	What is a regulatory factor produced by macrophages?.
pathogen travel body looking phagocyte called.	What are pathogens that travel through the body looking for phagocytes called?.
neutrophil rarely found.	Where are neutrophils rarely found?.
least abundant type phagocyte.	What is the least abundant type of phagocyte?.
usually last cell arrive scene infection.	What are usually the last cells to arrive at the scene of an infection?.
cell unable act scavenger.	What cell is unable to act as a scavenger?.
white blood cell known.	What are white blood cells known as?.
cell second arm innate immune system.	What cells are the second arm of the innate immune system?.
innate cell act mediator activation branch immune system.	Innate cells can act as mediators in the activation of what branch of the immune system?.
three kind phagocyte.	What are three kinds of phagocytes?.
cell can't act independently.	What cells can't act independently?.
leukocyte first arm.	What are leukocytes the first arm of?.
kind cell innate leukocyte.	What kind of cell is not an innate leukocyte?.
cell attack smaller pathogen contact.	What cells attack smaller pathogens through contact?.
least important mediator activation adaptive immune system.	What are the least important mediators in the activation of the adaptive immune system?.
phagocyte located tissue contact external environment called.	What are the phagocytes that are located in tissues in contact with the external environment called?.
dendritic cell named resemble.	Dendritic cells are named that because they resemble what?.
one key cell type adaptive immune system.	What are one of the key cell types of the adaptive immune system?.
dendritic cell present antigen cell adaptive nervous system.	Dendritic cells present antigens to what cells of the adaptive nervous system?.
phagocyte tissue contact internal environment called.	What are phagocytes in tissues that only have contact with the internal environment called?.
area dendritic cell found.	What areas are dendritic cells not found in?.
named resemblance dendritic cell.	What is named for its resemblance to dendritic cells?.
appearance dendritic cell neuronal dendrite share.	What appearance do dendritic cells and neuronal dendrites not share?.
serf barrier bodily tissue nervous system.	What serves as a barrier between bodily tissues and the nervous system?.
one part innate immune system attack microbe directly.	What is one part of the innate immune system that doesn't attack microbes directly?.
natural killer cell recognize cell targeted condition known.	Natural killer cells recognize cells that should be targeted by a condition known as what?.
missing self desribes cell small amount cell-surface marker.	Missing self desribes cells that only have small amounts of what cell-surface marker?.
mhc antigen normal body cell recognized receptor nk cell.	MHC antigens on normal body cells are recognized by what receptor on NK cells?.
part innate immune system directly attack microbe.	What part of the innate immune system directly attacks microbes?.
nk cell protect.	What do NK cells protect?.
normal body cell attacked nk cell.	Why are normal body cells attacked by NK cells?.
long clear nk cell recognized tumor.	How long was it clear how NK cells recognized tumors?.
accelerates nk cell.	What accelerates NK cells?.
type organism adaptive immune system first evolve.	In what types of organisms did the adaptive immune system first evolve?.
adaptive immune system recognizes non-self antigen process called.	The adaptive immune system recognizes non-self antigens during a process called what?.
antigen specificity allows response specific certain type.	Antigen specificity  allows responses that are specific to certain types of what?.
evolved later vertebrate.	What evolved in later vertebrates?.
immune response antigen-specific.	What immune response is not antigen-specific?.
needed adaptive immune response.	What is not needed for adaptive immune responses?.
allows response tailored specific pathogen.	What allows for responses that are not tailored to a specific pathogen?.
used eliminate pathogen infects body.	What is used to eliminate a pathogen that infects the body once?.
two major subtypes cell.	What are the two major subtypes of T cells?.
kind cell purpose modulating immune response.	What kind of T cells have the purpose of modulating the immune response?.
killer cell recognize antigen coupled kind molecule.	Killer T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules?.
helper regulatory cell recognize antigen coupled kind molecule.	Helper and regulatory T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules?.
class cell recognizes intact antigen associated mhc receptor.	What class of T cells recognizes intact antigens that are not associated with MHC receptors?.
cell carry receptor molecule.	What cells do not carry receptor molecules?.
cell recognize antigen processed.	What do T cells recognize before antigens have been processed?.
many subtypes b cell exist.	How many subtypes of B cells exist?.
many role type b cell.	How many roles do the types of B cell have?.
killer b cell recognize.	What do killer B cells recognize?.
kind cell kill cell infected pathogen.	What kind of T cells kill cells that are infected with pathogens?.
receptor killer cell use bind specific antigen complexed mhc class 1 receptor another cell.	What is the receptor that killer T cells use to bind to specific antigens that are complexed with the MHC Class 1 receptor of another cell?.
co-receptor cell help recognizing mhc-antigen complex.	What co-receptor on the T cell helps in recognizing the MHC-antigen complex?.
activated killer cell find cell mhc 1 receptor specific antigens, release cytotoxin.	When an activated killer T cell finds cells where the MHC 1 receptor has specific antigens, it releases cytotoxins such as what?.
toxin induces apoptosis target cell.	What toxin induces apoptosis in the target cell?.
cell help breed cell infected virus.	What cells help breed cells that are infected with viruses?.
killer b cell kill.	What do Killer B cells kill?.
killer cell deactivated.	When are Killer T cells deactivated?.
co-receptor make recognition difficult.	What co-receptor makes recognition more difficult?.
allows ions, water toxin exit target cell's membrane.	What allows ions, water and toxins to exit the target cell's membrane?.
co-receptor recruit molecule inside cell responsible cell activation.	What co-receptor recruits molecules inside the T cell that are responsible for cell activation?.
many receptor helper cell must bound mhc:antigen complex order cell activated.	How many receptors on a helper T cell must be bound to a MHC:antigen complex in order for the cell to be activated?.
receptor killer cell must bind many mhc: antigen complex order activate cell.	The receptors on a killer T cell must bind to how many MHC: antigen complexes in order to activate the cell?.
activation helper cell cause release chemical influence cell activity.	Activation of a helper T cell causes it to release what chemicals that influence cell activity?.
ligand cell surface upregulated helper cell activation.	What is a ligand on the cell surface that is upregulated after helper T cell activation?.
antigen helper cell recognize.	What antigens do Helper T cells not recognize?.
stronger association mhc:antigen complex killer cell.	What has a stronger association with the MHC:antigen complex than killer T cells?.
killer cell dis-activated.	What are killer T cells dis-activated by?.
helper cell absorb.	What do helper T cells absorb?.
b cell help cell produce.	What do B cells help T cells produce?.
gamma delta cell share characteristic type cell.	Gamma delta T cells share the characteristics of what other types of T cells?.
gamma delta cell different version receptor.	Gamma delta T cells have a different version of what receptor?.
type cell help innnate adaptive immunity.	What type of T cells help with both innnate and adaptive immunity?.
gamma delta cell rearrange tcr gene produce.	Gamma delta T cells rearrange TCR genes to produce what?.
kind human cell respond common molecule produced microbe.	What kind of human T cells respond to common molecules produced by microbes?.
cell posse alternative cell receptor.	What cells do not possess an alternative T cell receptor?.
cell gamma delta cell share characteristic.	What cells do gamma delta T cells not share characteristics with?.
fully understood γδ cell.	What is fully understood about γδ T cells?.
responds small number common molecule produced microbe.	What responds in small numbers to common molecules produced by microbes?.
kind cell identifies pathogen antibody surface complex specific foreign antigen.	What kind of cell identifies pathogens when the antibodies on its surface complex with a specific foreign antigen?.
process antigen/antibody complex processed peptide.	What is the process by which the antigen/antibody complex is processed in to peptides?.
matching helper cell release bind mhc:antigen complex b cell.	What does the matching helper T cell release when it binds with the MHC:antigen complex of the B cell?.
cell identify pathogen.	When does a T cell identify pathogens?.
peptide processed.	What are peptides processed into?.
attracts matching helper b cell.	What attracts a matching helper B cell?.
antibody circulate.	When do antibodies not circulate in?.
antibody neutralize.	What can antibodies not neutralize?.
b cell cell begin replicate, offspring cell become.	When B cells and T cells begin to replicate, what do some of their offspring cells become?.
function long-lived memory cell example kind immune response.	The function of long-lived memory cells is an example of what kind of immune response?.
immunological memory take two form.	Immunological memory can take what two forms?.
long-lived memory cell remember previous encounter.	Long-lived memory cells can remember previous encounters with what?.
happens b cell cell deactivated.	What happens when B cells and T cells are deactivated?.
cell mount weak response pathogen detected.	What cells mount a weak response if a pathogen is detected again?.
form immunological memory.	What is not a form of immunological memory?.
memory cell considered adaptive.	Why are memory cells not considered adaptive?.
cell unable remember specific pathogen.	What cells are unable to remember specific pathogens?.
newborn vulnerable infection previous exposure.	Newborns are vulnerable to infection because they have no previous exposure to what?.
antibody transported mother baby across placenta.	What antibody is transported from the mother to baby across the placenta?.
antibody transferred gut infant mean.	Antibodies are transferred to the gut of the infant through what means?.
antibody transported mother infant via placenta example type short-lived immunity.	Antibodies transported from the mother to an infant via the placenta is an example of what type of short-lived immunity?.
people least vulnerable infection.	What people are least vulnerable to infection?.
many layer protection provided father.	How many layers of protection are provided by the father?.
antibody transmitted father baby.	What antibody is transmitted from the father to the baby?.
present breast milk.	What is not present in breast milk?.
possible transfer one person another artificially.	What is not possible to transfer from one person to another artificially?.
hormone alter sensitivity immune system, referred.	Hormones can alter the sensitivity of the immune system, so they can be referred to as what?.
female sex hormone immunostimulators immune response.	Female sex hormones are immunostimulators of which immune responses?.
autoimmune disease affect woman preferentially.	What is an autoimmune disease that affects women preferentially?.
effect testosterone male immune system.	What is the effect of testosterone on the male immune system?.
keep sensitivity immune system level.	What keeps the sensitivity of the immune system at the same levels? .
autoimmune disease often strike men.	When do autoimmune diseases often strike men?.
hormone effect immune system.	What is a hormone that does not effect the immune system?.
male sex hormone immunostimulator.	What male sex hormone is an immunostimulator?.
autoimmune disease mostly strike men.	What is an autoimmune disease that mostly strikes men?.
protein closely intertwined circadian rhythm.	What is a protein that is closely intertwined with circadian rhythms?.
disruption sleep lead increase chronic condition.	Disruptions in sleep can lead to increase in what chronic conditions?.
kind deprivation result diminished immune response lower antibody production.	What kind of deprivation results in diminished immune response and lower antibody production?.
stronger effect sleep deprivation.	What has a stronger effect during sleep deprivation?.
antibody production higher normal.	When is antibody production higher than normal? .
protein effect t-cell differentiation.	What protein does not effect T-cell differentiation? .
chronic condition cause sleep deprivation.	What chronic conditions can cause sleep deprivation?.
effected natural light dark cycle.	What is not effected by natural light and dark cycles?.
partially responsible weakened immune response older individual.	What is partially responsible for weakened immune response in older individuals?.
person get older, skin produce le.	As a person gets older, what does the skin produce less of?.
production signalling molecule regulated immune system.	The production of what signalling molecules is regulated by the immune system?.
older people get le sun produce le chemical via uvb radiation.	Older people get less sun and produce less of what chemical via UVB radiation?.
increase age.	What increases with age?.
increased hormone level cause aging adult.	What do increased hormone levels cause in aging adults?.
hormone independent immune system.	What hormones are independent from the immune system?.
cause elevated vitamin level elderly.	What causes elevated vitamin D levels in the elderly?.
becomes adept producing vitamin person age.	What becomes more adept at producing vitamin D as a person ages?.
type immune cell help destroy abnormal cell tumor.	What type of immune cells help to destroy abnormal cells in tumors?.
lot tumor cell fewer type molecule surface.	Lots of tumor cells have fewer of what type of molecule on their surface?.
tumor antigen complexed mhc class molecule way antigen.	Tumor antigens are complexed with MHC class I molecules in the same way as what antigens?.
immune system also produce molecule order allow tumor destruction complement system.	The immune system also produces what molecules in order to allow for tumor destruction by the complement system?.
cell used multiply abnormal cell.	What cells are used to multiply the abnormal cells?.
cell helper b cell assist.	What cells do helper B cells assist?.
antigen present differently viral antigen.	What antigens present differently than viral antigens?.
helper cell recognize killer cell.	What do helper T cells recognize killer T cells as?.
antibody never generated fight.	What are antibodies never generated to fight?.
plant lack kind immune cell.	Plants lack what kind of immune cells?.
plant cell respond molecule associated pathogen known.	Plant cells respond to the molecules associated with pathogens known as what?.
cell site infection plant undergo process prevent spread disease.	Cells of the site of an infection in a plant undergo what process to prevent spread of the disease?.
kind defense response make entire plant resistant particular agent.	What is a kind of defense response that makes the entire plant resistant to a particular agent?.
mechanism help plant block virus replication.	What is a mechanism that can help plants block virus replication?.
cell plant animal.	What cells do plants and animals both have?.
happens part plant become infected.	What happens when all parts of a plant become infected?.
cell away site infection undergo.	What do cells away from the site of the infection undergo?.
cell undergo slow apoptosis.	What cells undergo slow apoptosis?.
unimportant sar.	What is unimportant in SAR?.
kind disorder result overactive immune response.	What kind of disorders are the result of an overactive immune response?.
autoimmune disorders, immune system distinguish type cell.	In autoimmune disorders, the immune system doesn't distinguish between what types of cells?.
specialized cell eliminate cell recognize self-antigens located.	Where are the specialized cells that eliminate cells that recognize self-antigens located?.
normal conditions, cell antibody produce kind peptide.	Under normal conditions, T cells and antibodies produce what kind of peptides?.
disorder cause immune system distinguish self non-self.	What disorder causes the immune system to distinguish between self and non-self?.
cell never reacts self peptide.	What cell never reacts with self peptides?.
function specialize cell located brain.	What is the function of specialize cells located in the brain?.
cell eliminated immune system.	What cells are not eliminated by the immune system?.
specialized cell located.	Where are specialized cells not located?.
kind disorder occur part immune system active.	What kind of disorders occur when part of the immune system isn't active?.
two age group strength immune system reduced.	In what two age groups is the strength of the immune system reduced?.
age immune response typically begin decline.	At what age do immune responses typically begin to decline?.
cause reduced immune function developed country.	What are some causes of reduced immune function in developed countries?.
common cause immunodeficiency developing nation.	What is the most common cause of immunodeficiency in developing nations?.
occurs component immune system active.	What occurs when all components of the immune system are active?.
people immune system strongest.	In what people is the immune system the strongest?.
rarest cause poor immune function developing country.	What is the rarest cause of poor immune function in developing countries?.
diet much protein cause.	What do diets with too much protein cause?.
loss thymus early age prevent.	What does the loss of the thymus at an early age prevent?.
process active immunity generated artificial manner.	By what process can active immunity be generated in an artificial manner?.
process vaccination also known.	What is the process of vaccination also known as?.
process vaccination, introduced order develop specific immunity.	In the process of vaccination, what is introduced in order to develop a specific immunity?.
vaccination exploit feature human immune system order successful.	Vaccination exploits what feature of the human immune system in order to be successful?.
short-term active memory acquired.	When is short-term active memory acquired?.
cell play role long-term active memory.	What cells do not play a role in long-term active memory?.
artificial method spreading immunity cause disease.	What artificial method of spreading immunity causes disease? .
vaccination exploit.	What does vaccination not exploit?.
one least common cause death human.	What is one of the least common causes of death in humans?.
bacteria often secrete kind protein ingest physical barrier.	Bacteria often secrete what kind of proteins to ingest a physical barrier?.
kind system infection involves inserting hollow tube host cell.	What kind of system of infection involves inserting a hollow tube into a host cell?.
type iii secretion system, protein transported host cell order.	In a type III secretion system, proteins are transported to the host cell in order to do what?.
success pathogen predicated ability.	The success of pathogens is predicated on their ability to do what?.
failure pathogen depend.	What does the failure of a pathogen depend on?.
virus overcome physical barrier.	How do viruses overcome physical barriers?.
bacteria use move protein host pathogen.	What do bacteria use to move proteins from the host to the pathogen?.
bacteria unable secrete.	What are bacteria unable to secrete?.
used shut pathogen defense.	What is used to shut down pathogen defenses?.
formulated idea clonal selection theory immunity.	Who formulated the idea of clonal selection theory of immunity?.
two example nonself entity accordance frank burnet's theory.	What are two examples of nonself entities in accordance with Frank Burnet's theory?.
complex "two-signal" activation cell referred.	What is the complex "two-signal" activation of T cells referred to?.
scientist influence frank burnet formulating theory immunity.	What other scientist influence Frank Burnet when he was formulating his theory of immunity?.
theory niels jerne formulate.	What theory did Niels Jerne formulate?.
frank burnet inspire suggestion.	Who did Frank Burnet inspire with a suggestion?.
theory immunity longer influential.	What theory of immunity is no longer influential?.
jerne develop basis cst.	What did Jerne develop on the basis of CST?.
frank burnet formulate 1950s.	What did Frank Burnet formulate before the 1950s?.
powerful class anti-inflammatory drug.	What are the most powerful class of anti-inflammatory drugs?.
low dos anti-inflammatory sometimes used class drug.	Low doses of anti-inflammatories are sometimes used with what classes of drugs?.
two example cytotoxic immunosuppressive drug.	What are two examples of cytotoxic or immunosuppressive drugs?.
example immunosuppressive drug prevents cell activity altering signal transduction pathway.	What is an example of an immunosuppressive drug that prevents T cell activity by altering signal transduction pathways?.
used enhance effect inflammation.	What is used to enhance the effects of inflammation?.
least powerful anti-inflammatory drug.	What are the least powerful anti-inflammatory drugs?.
side effect glucocorticoid.	What is not a side effect of glucocorticoids?.
higher dos anti-inflammatory drug used.	What are higher doses of anti-inflammatory drugs used with?.
drug help cell respond signal correctly.	What drugs help T cells respond to signals correctly?.
example differentiated effector cell peak wake period.	What are examples of differentiated effector cells that peak during wake periods?.
two anti-inflammatory molecule peak awake hour.	What are two anti-inflammatory molecules that peak during awake hours?.
inflammation occurs sleep time presence molecule.	Inflammation occurs during sleep times because of the presence of what molecule?.
melatonin sleep actively counteract production.	Melatonin during sleep can actively counteract the production of what?.
cell lowest people awake.	What cells are at their lowest while people are awake?.
differentiated effector cell ebb wake period.	Why do differentiated effector cells ebb during wake periods?.
molecule promote inflammation peak waking hour.	What molecules that promote inflammation peak during waking hours? .
could inflammation sleep period.	What could inflammation do during sleep periods?.
could promote free radical production sleep time.	What could promote free radical production during sleep times?.
cell extend encounter foreign pathogen.	What does a T cell extend when it encounters a foreign pathogen?.
active form vitamin known.	What is the active form of vitamin D known as?.
nature relationship t-cells vitamin.	What is the nature of the relationship between T-cells and vitamin D?.
gene responsible converting calcidiol calcitriol.	What gene is responsible for converting calcidiol into calcitriol?.
cells, immune cell express cyp27b1.	Other than T cells, what other immune cells express CYP27B1?.
pathogen encounter t-cell.	What does a pathogen do when it encounters a T-cell?.
cell bind vitamin c.	What cell binds to vitamin C?.
vitamin t-cells parasitic relationship.	What vitamin do T-cells have a parasitic relationship with?.
gene expressed b-cell.	What gene is expressed by the B-cell?.
gene convert calcitriol calcidiol.	What gene converts calcitriol into calcidiol?.
protein organism use identify molecule associated pathogen.	What are the proteins that organisms use to identify molecules associated with pathogens?.
antimicrobial peptide main form invertebrate systemic immunity called.	What are the antimicrobial peptides that are the main form of invertebrate systemic immunity called?.
cell type also used immune response type invertebrate life.	What cell type is also used for immune response in most types of invertebrate life?.
pathway play role immune response virus present eukaryote.	What pathway that plays a role in immune response to viruses is present in all eukaryotes?.
protein used organism.	What proteins are used by very few organisms?.
peptide help microbe flourish called.	What are peptides that help microbes flourish called?.
used form invertebrate.	What is not used by any form of invertebrate?.
play role immune response virus.	What does not play a role in the immune response to viruses?.
ribonuclease conserved.	Where are ribonucleases not conserved?.
molecule adaptive immune system exist jawed vertebrate.	What molecules of the adaptive immune system only exist in jawed vertebrates?.
two example primitive jawless vertebrate.	What are two examples of primitive jawless vertebrates?.
primitive jawless vertebrate posse array receptor referred.	Primitive jawless vertebrates possess an array of receptors referred to as what?.
evolution part immune system occurred evolutionary ancestor jawed vertebrate.	Evolution of what part of the immune system occurred in the evolutionary ancestor of jawed vertebrates?.
evolved modern jawed vertebrate.	What evolved in modern jawed vertebrates?.
exists outside jawed vertebrate.	What only exists outside of jawed vertebrates?.
primitive jawed vertebrate contain lymphocyte-derived molecule.	What primitive jawed vertebrates do not contain lymphocyte-derived molecules?.
produced large number gene.	What are produced from a large number of genes?.
molecule repelled pathogenic antigen.	What molecules are repelled by pathogenic antigens?.
invertebrate generate type cell part vertebrate adaptive immune system.	Invertebrates do not generate what type of cells that are a part of the vertebrate adaptive immune system?.
main defense mechanism bacteria known.	What is the main defense mechanism of bacteria known as?.
restriction modification system used bacteria protection pathogen.	The restriction modification system is used by bacteria for protection from what pathogens?.
system prokaryote retain phage gene fragment previously come contact.	What is the system by which prokaryotes retain phage gene fragments that they have previously come in contact with?.
unlikely first multicomponent, adaptive immune system arose.	Where is it unlikely that the first multicomponent, adaptive immune system arose?.
arose latest vertebrate.	What arose in the latest vertebrates?.
mechanism many specie utilize.	What mechanisms do many species not utilize?.
kind immunity prokaryote.	What kind of immunity do prokaryotes not have?.
often studied unicellular eukaryote.	What has often been studied in unicellular eukaryotes?.
two main theory immunity end 19th century.	What were the two main theories of immunity at the end of the 19th century?.
main proponent cellular theory immunity.	Who was the main proponent of the cellular theory of immunity?.
elie metchnikoff's cellular theory, cell responsible immune response.	Under Elie Metchnikoff's cellular theory, what cells were responsible for immune response?.
two scientist proponent humoral theory immunity.	What two scientists were proponents of the humoral theory of immunity?.
according humoral theory immunity, body immune agent.	According to the humoral theory of immunity, what were the bodies immune agents?.
suggested immunology 19th century.	What was suggested in immunology before the 19th century?.
main detractor cellular theory immunity.	Who was the main detractor of the cellular theory of immunity?.
main detractor humoral theory immunity.	Who were the main detractors of the humoral theory of immunity?.
cellular theory claim organism's humor.	What did cellular theory claim was in an organism's humors?.
tumor able evade body's immune response become.	Tumors that are able to evade the body's immune response can become what?.
receptor tumor cell often reduced concentration.	What receptors do tumor cells often have reduced concentrations of?.
chemical secreted tumor suppresses immune response.	What is a chemical secreted by tumors that suppresses the immune response?.
cytokine tbf-b suppresses activity cell type.	Cytokine TBF-B suppresses the activity of what cell types?.
unable evade immune system.	What is unable to evade the immune system?.
make detection killer cell likely.	What makes detection by killer T cells more likely?.
tumor cell release strengthens immune response.	What do tumor cells release that strengthens the immune response?.
cytokine tgf-β encourage activity.	What does cytokine TGF-β encourage the activity of?.
happens immune system loses tolerance tumor antigen.	What happens when the immune system loses tolerance for tumor antigens?.
name response immune system damage body's native tissue.	What is the name for a response of the immune system that damages the body's native tissues?.
many class immune hypersensitivity.	How many classes of immune hypersensitivity are there?.
type hypersensitivity associated allergy.	What type of hypersensitivity is associated with allergies?.
chemical mediates type 1 hypersensitivity.	What is the chemical that mediates Type 1 hypersensitivity?.
antibody-dependent hypersensitivity belongs class hypersensitivity.	Antibody-dependent hypersensitivity belongs to what class of hypersensitivity?.
immune response heals body's tissue.	What is an immune response that heals the body's own tissues?.
divided five class.	What is divided into five classes?.
symptom type hypersensitivity.	What is not a symptom of type I hypersensitivity?.
type hypersensitivity take two three week develop.	What type of hypersensitivity takes between two and three weeks to develop?.
occurs antibody bind patient's cell.	What occurs when antibodies will not bind to the patient's cells?.
process pathogen evade immune system hiding inside host cell called.	What is the process by which pathogens evade the immune system by hiding inside the host cells called?.
food bacteria example intracellular pathogenesis.	What food bacteria is an example of intracellular pathogenesis?.
eukaryotic parasite responsible malaria known.	What is the eukaryotic parasite responsible for malaria known as?.
bacteria life inside protective capsule serf prevent cell lysis.	What bacteria lives inside a protective capsule that serves to prevent cell lysis?.
protein staphylococcus aureus produce make antibody ineffective.	What protein does Staphylococcus aureus produce to make antibodies ineffective?.
strategy used pathogen encounter innate immune system.	What strategy is used by pathogens to encounter the innate immune system?.
called pathogen spends lifecycle outside host cell.	What is it called when a pathogen spends most of its lifecycle outside of host cells? .
pathogen come direct contact immune cells, antibody complement.	Where does a pathogen come in direct contact with immune cells, antibodies and complement?.
secretes pathogen enhance host's immune response.	What secretes pathogens that enhance the host's immune response?.
bacterial surface protein bind.	What do bacterial surface proteins not bind to?.
process adaptive immune system evaded chainging non-essential epitope called.	What is the process by which the adaptive immune system is evaded by the chainging of non-essential epitopes called?.
example virus us antigenic variation.	What is an example of a virus that uses antigenic variation?.
example parasite used antigenic variation strategy evade destruction.	What is an example of a parasite that used the antigenic variation strategy to evade destruction?.
compound masked molecule host cell order virus evade detection.	What compounds can be masked with the molecules of the host cell in order for a virus to evade detection?.
le complex mechanism used.	What are the less complex mechanisms used to do?.
complex way avoid adaptive immune system.	What is the most complex way to avoid the adaptive immune system?.
pathogen use antigenic variation.	What is a pathogen that does not use antigenic variation?.
explain failure vaccine directed hiv virus.	What does not explain the failure of vaccines directed at the HIV virus?.
parasite always us surface protein.	What is a parasite that always uses the same surface protein?.
process immune system identifies tumor called.	What is the process by which the immune system identifies tumors called?.
virus human cause cervical cancer.	What is the virus in humans that causes cervical cancer?.
example enzyme transform skin cell tumor expressed high level.	What is an example of an enzyme that can transform skin cells into tumors when expressed at high levels?.
cancerous tumor skin known.	What are cancerous tumors of the skin known as?.
skin cell transformed tumor known.	What are the skin cells that can be transformed into tumors known as?.
important role immune system.	What is not an important role of the immune system?.
tumor express also found normal cell.	What do tumors express that are also found on normal cells?.
cause tumor antigen.	What is not a cause of tumor antigens?.
happens tyrosinase expressed low level.	What happens when tyrosinase is expressed at low levels?.
fourth possible source tumor antigen.	What is a fourth possible source for tumor antigens?.
size larger drug elicit neutralizing immune response.	At what size and larger can drugs elicit a neutralizing immune response?.
kind amino acid overrepresented epitope region.	What kind of amino acids are overrepresented in epitope regions?.
study protein involved immune response known.	What is the study of proteins involved in immune response known as?.
public database epitope pathogen known recognizable cell.	There is a public database of epitopes for pathogens known to be recognizable by what cells?.
field studying immunogenicity bioinformatics known.	What is the field of studying immunogenicity through bioinformatics known as?.
kind immune response smaller drug provoke.	What kind of immune response do smaller drugs provoke?.
neutralizing immune response mean drug based smaller peptide protein.	What does the neutralizing immune response mean for drugs based on smaller peptides and proteins?.
way used predict immunogenicity peptide protein.	What is not a way that is used to predict the immunogenicity of peptides and proteins?.
underrepresented epitope region.	What is underrepresented in epitope regions?.
study small set protein.	What is the study of small sets of proteins?.
drop blood level cortisol epinephrine result increase level hormone.	Drop in the blood levels of cortisol and epinephrine results in increase levels of what hormones?.
hormone released sleep support interaction t-cells specie.	Hormones released during sleep support the interaction of T-cells and what species?.
sleep hormone shift cytokine balance cytokine.	Sleep hormones shift the cytokine balance to which cytokine?.
sleep hormone release support formation immune memory initiating immune response.	Sleep hormone release supports formation of immune memory by initiating what immune response?.
sleep effect.	What does sleep have no effect on?.
rise early slow-wave-sleep stage.	What rises during early slow-wave-sleep stage?.
slows immune function sleep.	What slows down immune functions during sleep?.
hormone produced mostly awake.	What hormones are produced mostly when awake?.
hormone produced time stop interacting.	What do hormones produced during this time stop from interacting?.
immune system bacteria enzyme protect infection kind cell.	The immune systems of bacteria have enzymes that protect against infection by what kind of cells?.
antimicrobial peptide evolved immune defense eukaryote called.	What are antimicrobial peptides that evolved as immune defense in eukaryotes called?.
idea acquired immunity jawed vertebrate basis medical treatment.	The idea of acquired immunity in jawed vertebrates is the basis of what medical treatment?.
ability recognize adapt new specific pathogen called.	What is the ability to recognize and adapt to new specific pathogens called?.
known adapting evolving slowly.	What is known for adapting and evolving slowly?.
simple unicellular organism lack.	What do simple unicellular organisms lack?.
example le sophisticated defense mechanism jawed vertebrate.	What is an example of a less sophisticated defense mechanism that jawed vertebrates have?.
creates immunological memory initial responds pathogen.	What creates immunological memory before the initial responds to a pathogen?.
medical treatment completely different acquired immunity.	What medical treatment is completely different from acquired immunity?.
complement protein bind kind molecule surface microbe order elicit immune response.	Complement proteins bind to what kind of molecules on the surface of microbes in order to elicit an immune response?.
speed killing response human immune system product process.	The speed of the killing response of the human immune system is a product of what process?.
type cascade result complement protein bind microbe activate protease activity.	What type of cascade results when complement proteins bind to microbes and activate their protease activity?.
deposition compliment kill invader cell directly.	How can the deposition of compliment kill invader cells directly?.
kind response activated plant.	What is this kind of response activated by plants?.
trigger slow killing response.	What triggers a slow killing response?.
nothing speed response.	What has nothing to do with the speed of the response?.
complement protein activate bind microbe.	What do complement proteins activate before they bind to the microbe?.
repels immune cell.	What repels immune cells?.
organization ipcc part.	What organization is the IPCC a part of?.
un organization established ipcc.	What UN organizations established the IPCC?.
un want stabilize.	What does the UN want to stabilize?.
un's climate change treaty.	What is the UN's climate change treaty?.
un resolution endorsed ipcc.	What UN resolution endorsed the IPCC?.
intergovernmental body control united state.	What is the intergovernmental body under the control of the United States?.
organization responsible setting ipcc.	What organization was responsible for setting up the IPCC?.
refused endorse ipcc.	Who refused to endorse the IPCC?.
organization certain member belong.	What organization can only certain members belong to?.
one minor treaty's climate change.	What is one of the minor treaty's on climate change?.
chair ipcc.	Who is the chair of the IPCC?.
nationality hoesung lee.	What nationality is Hoesung Lee?.
vice-chair ipcc.	Who is the vice-chair of the IPCC?.
first chair ipcc.	Who was the first chair of the IPCC?.
pachauri resign chair ipcc.	When did Pachauri resign as chair of the IPCC?.
president ipcc.	Who is the President of the IPCC?.
year hoesung lee become president.	What year did Hoesung Lee become President?.
president ipcc hoesung lee.	Who was President of the IPCC before Hoesung Lee?.
year el gizouli resign ipcc.	In what year did El Gizouli resign from the IPCC?.
first president ipcc.	Who was the first President of the IPCC?.
ipcc panel.	Who is on the IPCC Panel?.
many people attended 2003 ipcc meeting.	How many people attended the 2003 IPCC meeting?.
kind people attend ipcc meeting.	What kind of people attend the IPCC meetings?.
much ipcc attendee government representative.	How much of the IPCC attendees are government representatives?.
non-governmental group participant plenary session.	Which non-governmental groups are participants of the plenary sessions?.
ipcc session open everyone.	Which IPCC sessions are open to everyone?.
year 375 official attend ipcc bureau session.	What year did more than 375 officials attend the IPCC Bureau session?.
session majority attendance non-governmental organization.	Which sessions had a majority attendance from non-governmental organizations?.
session ipcc panel attend opening ceremony.	What session did the IPCC panel attend before the opening ceremonies?.
ipcc trust fund founded.	When was the IPCC Trust Fund founded?.
started ipcc trust fund.	Who started the IPCC Trust Fund?.
fund ipcc's secretary.	Who funds the IPCC's Secretary?.
fund ipcc's deputy secretary.	Who funds the IPCC's Deputy Secretary?.
rule ipcc follow.	What rules does the IPCC have to follow?.
trust ipcc give funding.	To what trust does the IPCC give funding?.
organization cover cost president ipcc.	Which organization covers the cost of the President of the IPCC?.
unep founded.	When was UNEP founded?.
distributes money annual trust fund.	Who distributes money from the annual trust fund?.
required follow financial rule regulation.	Who is not required to follow financial rules and regulations?.
ipcc.	What does the IPCC not do?.
ipcc report get information.	Where do IPCC reports get their information?.
'grey literature'.	What is 'grey literature'?.
kind non-peer-reviewed source ipcc use.	What kind of non-peer-reviewed sources does the IPCC use?.
responsible monitoring climate data.	Who is responsible for monitoring climate data?.
organization climate related research.	What organization does climate related research?.
guideline used ipcc review.	What guidelines are used for IPCC reviews?.
must research according ipcc guideline.	What must all research be according to the IPCC guidelines?.
example peer-reviewed resource.	What is an example of a peer-reviewed resource?.
many coordinating lead author ipcc report chapter.	How many coordinating lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?.
many lead author ipcc report chapter.	How many lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?.
many contributing author ipcc report chapter.	How many contributing authors does an IPCC report chapter have?.
assembles authors' contribution.	Who assembles the authors' contributions?.
coordinating lead author report.	Who do coordinating lead authors report to?.
one lead author responsible.	What is the one lead author responsible for?.
many chapter coordinating lead author.	How many chapters have coordinating lead authors?.
contributing author report.	Who do the contributing authors report to?.
responsibility publishing material.	Who has the responsibility for publishing materials?.
lead author prepare graph data.	Who do the lead authors prepare graphs and data for?.
wg summary policymakers report say human activity greenhouse gas.	What does the WG I Summary for Policymakers report say human activities are doing to greenhouse gases?.
increased greenhouse gas cause.	What do increased greenhouse gases cause?.
much greenhouse effect due carbon dioxide.	How much of the greenhouse effect is due to carbon dioxide?.
scenario called change greenhouse gas creation practice.	What is the scenario called in which we don't change our greenhouse gas creation practices?.
much global mean surface air temperature changed last century.	How much has global mean surface air temperature changed in the last century?.
summary say human activity responsible earth cooling.	What summary says that human activity is responsible for the earths cooling?.
much co2 level expected increase business usual scenario.	How much are CO2 levels expected to increase under the business as usual scenario?.
much co2 level expected increase next 100 year.	How much are CO2 levels expected to increase over the next 100 years?.
climate model predict increase much 0.6 degree c next 100 year.	What do climate models predict will increase by as much as 0.6 degrees C in the next 100 years?.
enhanced greenhouse effect reach alarming level.	When will enhanced greenhouse effect reach alarming levels?.
joint statement climate change issued.	When was the joint statement on climate change issued?.
many organization issued joint statement climate change.	How many organizations issued the joint statement on climate change?.
journal joint statement published.	Which journal was the joint statement published in?.
sure statement say scientist temperature would keep rising.	How sure did the statement say scientists were that temperatures would keep rising?.
much statement predict global surface temperature would increase 2100.	How much did the statement predict global surface temperature would increase by 2100?.
year 12 national science academy issue joint statement climate change.	In what year did 12 national science academies issue a joint statement on climate change?.
society responsible publication joint statement.	Which society was responsible for the publication of the joint statement?.
journal fact climate change published.	What journal was the facts of climate change published in?.
concluded co2 would raise 90%.	Who concluded that CO2 would raise by 90%?.
year average co2 level expected increase 90%.	What year is average CO2 levels expected to increase by 90%?.
ipcc author criticized tar.	Which IPCC author criticized the TAR?.
lindzen criticize summary policymakers.	What did Lindzen criticize about the Summary for Policymakers?.
responded lindzen's criticism.	Who responded to Lindzen's criticisms?.
houghton's role.	What was Houghton's role?.
houghton say necessary change spm.	What did Houghton say is necessary for any changes to the SPM?.
organization faithfully summaarized wgi report.	Which organization faithfully summaarized the WGI report?.
one author wgi summary.	Who is one of the authors of the WGI Summary?.
said climate model uncertain.	Who has said that climate models are uncertain?.
organization delegate disagreement spm.	Which organizations delegates has a disagreement with the SPM?.
change support scientific evidence.	Changes to what have the support of scientific evidence?.
ipcc prepare special report.	How does the IPCC prepare Special Reports?.
special report renewable energy source climate change mitigation (srren) issued.	When was the Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation (SRREN) issued?.
special report managing risk extreme event disaster advance climate change adaptation (srex) issued.	When was the Special Report on Managing Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation (SREX) issued?.
2011 special report issued.	Why were the 2011 Special Reports issued?.
organization responsibility writing climate assessment report.	Which organization only has the responsibility for writing climate assessment reports?.
report follow different procedure assessment report.	Which reports follow a different procedure than the assessment reports?.
year two assessment report finalized.	Which year were two assessment reports finalized?.
one two assessment report published 2011.	What is one of the two assessment reports published in 2011?.
2011 report requested ipcc.	What 2011 report was requested by the IPCC?.
activity unfccc require ipcc run.	What other activities does the UNFCCC require the IPCC to run?.
used estimate emission.	What is used to estimate emissions?.
level thing used determine emission factor.	Levels of what things are used to determine emission factors?.
council assign task ipcc.	What councils assign tasks to the IPCC?.
run unep council.	Who runs the UNEP Council?.
organization unfccc process support.	Which organization does the UNFCCC processes support?.
one minor function ipcc.	What is one of the minor functions of the IPCC?.
responsible running national greenhouse gas inventory programme.	Who is responsible for running the National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme?.
measure level fuel consumption.	What measures the levels of fuel consumption?.
ipcc say mistaken.	What did the IPCC say was mistaken?.
ipcc apologize.	What did the IPCC apologize for?.
source mistake.	What was the source of the mistake?.
report correct date.	What report had the correct date?.
date affirmed ipcc.	Which date was affirmed by the IPCC?.
policymakers create ipcc.	What did policymakers create for the IPCC?.
given projection included final summary.	Who was given a projection included in the final summary?.
name wwf report.	What was the name of the WWF report?.
robert watson's role ipcc.	What was Robert Watson's role in the IPCC?.
direction watson say mistake went.	What direction did Watson say the mistake went in?.
martin parry's role ipcc.	What was Martin Parry's role in the IPCC?.
topic error.	What was the topic of the error?.
verdict alleged error.	What was the verdict on other alleged errors?.
said climate change overstated.	Who said that climate change has been overstated?.
concerned trend state effect climate change.	Who should be concerned with the trend to under state the effects of climate change?.
published error regarding himalayan glacier.	Who published an error regarding the Himalayan glaciers?.
substantial error put ipcc research doubt.	What substantial error put the IPCC research in doubt?.
created assessment found substantial error.	Who created assessments that were found to have substantial errors?.
paper published "millennial northern hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph based.	When was the paper published that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?.
wrote paper "millennial northern hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph based.	Who wrote the paper that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?.
nickname "millennial northern hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph.	What is the nickname for the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph?.
reconstruction supported 1999 paper's information.	What reconstructions supported the 1999 paper's information?.
graph prominently featured second assessment report.	Which graph was prominently featured in the second assessment report?.
year third assessment report published.	What year was the third assessment report published?.
lacking second assessment report.	What was lacking in the second assessment report?.
report depicted lesser temperature variation.	Which report depicted lesser temperature variations?.
area 1995 report based.	In which area was the 1995 report based?.
range year current warming compared.	What range of years was the current warming compared to?.
led science environmental policy project.	Who led the Science and Environmental Policy Project?.
singer hold press conference may 2000.	Where did Singer hold a press conference in May 2000?.
singer dispute graph senate hearing.	When did Singer dispute the graph at a Senate hearing?.
senate committee singer speak july 2000.	What Senate committee did Singer speak to in July 2000?.
year study find warming exceptional.	Which years did studies find that warming was exceptional?.
argued including graph final report.	Who argued for including the graph in the final report?.
karlen singer present u senate.	What did Karlen and Singer present to the US senate?.
date john lawrence daly present ipcc 1995 report.	On what date did John Lawrence Daly present the IPCC 1995 report?.
graph supported mcintyre mckitrick.	Which graph was supported by McIntyre and McKitrick?.
chairman house committee energy commerce.	Who was the chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce?.
chairman subcommittee oversight investigation.	Who was Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations?.
barton whitfield demand climate research record.	When did Barton and Whitfield demand climate research records?.
chairman house science committee.	Who was chairman of the House Science Committee?.
said barton's investigation "misguided illegitimate".	Who said Barton's investigation was "misguided and illegitimate"?.
rep. joe barton write letter.	To whom did Rep. Joe Barton write a letter?.
kept full record climate research.	Who kept the full records on climate research?.
suggested investigation legitimate.	Who suggested that the investigation was legitimate?.
scientist intimidated.	Who were scientists intimidated by?.
council's investigation found statistical failing.	Which council's investigation found no statistical failings?.
ipcc fourth assessment report published.	When was the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report published?.
ipcc third assessment report published.	When was the IPCC Third Assessment Report published?.
many medieval warm period reconstruction used.	How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions were used?.
many medieval warm period reconstruction covered 1,000+ year.	How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions covered 1,000+ years?.
problem tree ring data.	What problem did some tree ring data have?.
report excluded graph showing temperature reconstruction.	What report excluded a graph showing temperature reconstruction?.
many temperature reconstruction included second assessment report.	How many temperature reconstructions were included in the second assessment report?.
calibrated newer study.	Who calibrated newer studies?.
analysed medieval cold period.	Who analysed the Medieval Cold Period?.
many reconstruction covered 10,000 year.	How many reconstructions covered more than 10,000 years?.
study published confirming 2001 ipcc projection.	When was a study published confirming the 2001 IPCC projections?.
2001 ipcc report compare reality 2001-2006.	How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality for 2001-2006?.
2001 ipcc report compare reality temperature level.	How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on temperature levels?.
2001 ipcc report compare reality sea level.	How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on sea levels?.
2007 ipcc report suggest decreasing.	What did the 2007 IPCC report suggest had been decreasing? .
many year temperature studied 2001 report.	For how many years had temperatures been studied in the 2001 report?.
projection suggested temperature would rise, sea level would decrease.	Which projections suggested that temperatures would rise, but that sea levels would decrease?.
projection overstated rate temperature would rise.	Which projection overstated the rate at which temperatures would rise?.
level projected sea level 2001 ipcc projection.	Below what levels were the projected sea levels in the 2001 IPCC projection?.
danger ipcc understate.	What danger did the IPCC understate?.
much ipcc third assessment report say sea level rise 1990 2100.	How much did the IPCC Third Assessment Report say sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100?.
much researcher think sea level rise 1990 2100.	How much do researchers now think sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100?.
third assessment report published.	When was the Third Assessment Report published?.
much greater 1990 sea level anticipated year 2100.	How much greater were 1990 sea levels than those anticipated in the year 2100?.
projection sea level increase forth assessment report.	What was the projection of sea level increases in the forth assessment report?.
projected 1990 level third assessment report.	Who projected the 1990 levels in the third assessment report?.
study suggests previous estimate overstated.	Which study suggests that previous estimates were overstated?.
much lower researcher suggest sea level would 2100 compared 1990.	How much lower did researchers suggest sea levels would be in 2100 as compared to 1990?.
role michael oppenheimer ipcc's report.	What role did Michael Oppenheimer have in the IPCC's reports?.
published state planet 2008-2009 report.	Who published the State of the Planet 2008-2009 report?.
approach oppenheimer advocate.	What approach did Oppenheimer advocate?.
author fourth assessment report.	Who was the author of the fourth assessment report?.
fifth assessment report written.	When was the fifth assessment report written?.
report michael oppenheimer suggest needed contain broad exploration certainty.	What reports did Michael Oppenheimer suggest needed to contain a broad exploration of certainties? .
dissenting opinion published.	Where are dissenting opinions published?.
magazine oppenheimer defend consensus approach.	In which magazine did Oppenheimer defend the consensus approach?.
successfully dealt ozone depletion.	What has successfully dealt with ozone depletion?.
kyoto protocol try address.	What did the Kyoto Protocol try to address?.
whose goal often still oppose ipcc.	Whose goals often still oppose the IPCC?.
kyoto protocol dealt depletion.	Kyoto Protocol dealt with which depletion?.
process science government follow.	What process do both science and governments follow?.
goal science government common.	What goals do both science and government have in common?.
state government often work lockstep.	Who do states and governments often work in lockstep with?.
assured political response linear model.	What will be assured because of the political response to the linear model?.
said people involved ozone situation "a better understanding scientific ignorance uncertainties".	Who said people involved in the ozone situation had "a better understanding of scientific ignorance and uncertainties"?.
remain unsolved problem kyoto protocol.	What remain unsolved problems with the Kyoto Protocol?.
conflict ozone mitigation reduce.	What conflicts did the ozone mitigation reduce?.
ordered stern review.	Who ordered the Stern Review?.
stated scientific ignorance caused uncertainty global warming.	Who stated that that scientific ignorance was what caused uncertainties of global warming?.
metaphor explained global warming.	What metaphors explained global warming? .
everyday relevance popular culture explain.	What did everyday relevance to popular culture explain?.
public see imminent danger.	What does the public see an an imminent danger?.
one problem solved kyoto protocol.	What was one of the problems solved by the Kyoto Protocol?.
ipcc rely research.	What does the IPCC rely on for research?.
ipcc's report deadline cause omitted.	What can the IPCC's report deadlines cause to be omitted?.
seen ultimate climate change authority.	Who is seen as the ultimate climate change authority?.
organization responsible research.	What organization is responsible for their own research?.
benefit research carried ipcc.	Who benefits from the research carried out by the IPCC?.
area science understanding slowly changing.	What area of science is understanding slowly changing?.
report problem lack scientific confidence.	What report has the problem of a lack of scientific confidence?.
many scientist called change ipcc feb 2010.	How many scientists called to change the IPCC in Feb 2010?.
feb 2010 call change published.	Where was the Feb 2010 call for change published?.
one proposal let ipcc respond new evidence faster.	What was one proposal to let the IPCC respond to new evidence faster?.
suggested ipcc avoid political problem.	How was it suggested that the IPCC avoid political problems?.
date fourth assessment report published.	What date was the Fourth Assessment Report published?.
journal five lead ipcc author call support ipcc.	In which journal did five lead IPCC authors call for support of the IPCC?.
called government oversight ipcc.	Who called for more government oversight into the IPCC?.
ipcc complain happening government oversight.	What did the IPCC complain was happening from government oversight?.
one way current ipcc responds new evidence quickly.	What is one way the current IPCC responds to new evidence quickly?.
divisor besides 1 prime number.	What is the only divisor besides 1 that a prime number can have?.
number greater 1 divided 3 number called.	What are numbers greater than 1 that can be divided by 3 or more numbers called?.
theorem defines main role prime number theory.	What theorem defines the main role of primes in number theory?.
number larger 1 represented product.	Any number larger than 1 can be represented as a product of what?.
must one excluded order preserve uniqueness fundamental theorem.	Why must one be excluded in order to preserve the uniqueness of the fundamental theorem?.
divisor besides 1 product.	What is the only divisor besides 1 that a product can have?.
number greater 1 divided 6 number called.	What are numbers greater than 1 that can be divided by 6 or more numbers called?.
number larger 6 represented.	What can any number larger than 6 can be represented as?.
number larger -3 represented product.	A number larger than -3 can be represented as a product of what?.
must -1 excluded order preserve uniqueness fundamental theorem.	Why must -1 be excluded in order to preserve the uniqueness of the fundamental theorem?.
name property designates number prime.	What is the name of the property that designates a number as being prime or not?.
name process confirms primality number n.	What is the name of the process which confirms the primality of a number n?.
name one algorithm useful conveniently testing primality large number.	What is the name of one algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers? .
name another algorithm useful conveniently testing primality large number.	What is the name of another algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers? .
january 2016 many digit largest known prime consist.	As of January 2016 how many digits does the largest known prime consist of?.
name property designates number efficient.	What is the name of the property that designates a number as being efficient or not?.
name process confirms primality decimal digit.	What is the name of the process which confirms the primality of a decimal digits?.
name one algorithm useful conveniently testing primality decimal digit.	What is the name of one algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of decimal digits?.
name another algorithm useful conveniently testing primality decimal digit.	What is the name of another algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of decimal digits?.
january 2016 many primality largest known prime consists.	As of January 2016 how many primalities does the largest known prime consists of?.
many prime number exist.	How many prime numbers exist?.
established amount prime number existence.	Who established the amount of prime numbers in existence?.
type behavior prime possible determine.	What type of behavior in primes is it possible to determine?.
theorem state probability number n prime inversely proportional logarithm.	What theorem states that the probability that a number n is prime is inversely proportional to its logarithm?.
prime number theorem proven.	When was the prime number theorem proven?.
many chosen number exist.	How many chosen numbers exist?.
established amount chosen number existence.	Who established the amount of chosen numbers in existence?.
type behavior chosen possible determine.	What type of behavior in chosens is it possible to determine?.
theorem state probability number n prime inversely proportional direction.	What theorem states that the probability that a number n is prime is inversely proportional to its direction?.
random number theorem proven.	When was the random number theorem proven?.
name supposition number larger 2 represented sum two prime.	What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 2 can be represented as the sum of two primes?.
name supposition infinite pair prime whose difference 2.	What is the name of the supposition that there are infinite pairs of primes whose difference is 2?.
besides analytic property numbers, property number number theory focus.	Besides the analytic property of numbers, what other property of numbers does number theory focus on?.
application prime number used information technology utilizes fact factoring large prime number challenging.	What is the application of prime numbers used in information technology which utilizes the fact that factoring very large prime numbers is very challenging?.
name one algebraic generalization prime number inspired.	What is the name of one algebraic generalization prime numbers have inspired?.
name supposition number larger 1 represented sum two prime.	What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 1 can be represented as the sum of two primes?.
name supposition infinite pair prime whose difference prime.	What is the name of the supposition that there are infinite pairs of primes whose difference is prime?.
besides analytic property goldbach's conjecture, property goldbach's conjecture number theory focus.	Besides the analytic property of Goldbach's conjecture, what other property of Goldbach's conjecture does number theory focus on?.
application prime number used information technology utilizes fact factoring large prime number expressed sum two prime.	What is the application of prime numbers used in information technology which utilizes the fact that factoring very large prime numbers is expressed in the sum of two primes?.
name one algebraic generalization goldbach's conjecture inspired.	What is the name of one algebraic generalization Goldbach's conjecture has inspired?.
even number larger cannot considered prime.	 Any even number larger than what cannot be considered prime?.
specific divisor even number larger 2.	What are the specific divisors of all even numbers larger than 2?.
name given prime number larger 2.	What name is given to any prime number larger than 2?.
besides 1,3 7, number must prime greater 5 end.	Besides 1,3 and 7, what other number must all primes greater than 5 end with?.
type number always multiple 2.	What type of numbers are always multiples of 2?.
even number larger cannot considered distinct.	Any even number larger than what cannot be considered distinct?.
specific divisor even number larger 1.	What are the specific divisors of all even numbers larger than 1?.
name given prime number larger 1.	What name is given to any prime number larger than 1?.
besides 1,3, 7, number must distinct divisor greater 5 end.	Besides 1,3, and 7, what other number must all distinct divisors greater than 5 end with?.
type number always multiple distinct divisor.	What type of numbers are always multiples of distinct divisors?.
number early greek regard true number.	What number did early Greeks not regard as a true number?.
included 1 first prime number mid 18th century.	Who included 1 as the first prime number in the mid 18th century?.
mid 18th century, concur 1 first prime number.	In the mid 18th century, who did not concur that 1 should be the first prime number?.
many prime included derrick norman lehmer's list prime number.	How many primes were included in Derrick Norman Lehmer's list of prime numbers?.
type number modern mathematician consider 1.	What type of number do modern mathematicians consider 1 to be?.
number henri lebesgue regard true number.	What number did Henri Lebesgue not regard as a true number?.
included 1 first prime number mid 20th century.	Who included 1 as the first prime number in the mid 20th century?.
mid 20th century, concur 1 first prime number.	In the mid 20th century, who did not concur that 1 should be the first prime number?.
many prime included early greek's list prime number.	How many primes were included in the early Greek's list of prime numbers?.
type number early greek consider 1.	What type of number did the early Greeks consider 1 to be?.
theorem would invalid number 1 considered prime.	Which theorem would be invalid if the number 1 were considered prime?.
sieve eratosthenes would valid true.	The sieve of Eratosthenes would not be valid if what were true?.
one function prime number 1.	What is one function that prime numbers have that 1 does not?.
another function prime number 1.	What is another function that primes have that the number 1 does not?.
1 considered prime would sieve eratosthenes yield number.	If 1 were to be considered as prime what would the sieve of Eratosthenes yield for all other numbers?.
theorem would invalid number 15 considered prime.	Which theorem would be invalid if the number 15 were considered prime?.
sieve euler would valid true.	The sieve of Euler would not be valid if what were true?.
one function prime number 15.	What is one function that prime numbers have that 15 does not?.
another function prime number 15.	What is another function that primes have that the number 15 does not?.
15 considered prime would sieve eratosthenes yield number.	If 15 were to be considered as prime what would the sieve of Eratosthenes yield for all other numbers?.
name egyptian papyrus suggests may knowledge prime number.	What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of prime numbers?.
civilization first known clearly study prime number.	What civilization was the first known to clearly study prime numbers?.
work around 300 bc significant theorem prime number.	What work from around 300 BC has significant theorems about prime numbers?.
demonstrated create perfect number mersenne prime.	Who demonstrated how to create a perfect number from a Mersenne prime?.
sieve eratosthenes.	What does the Sieve of Eratosthenes do?.
name egyptian papyrus suggests may knowledge infinite number.	What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of infinite numbers?.
civilization first known clearly study infinite number.	What civilization was the first known to clearly study infinite numbers?.
work around 3000bc significant theorem infinite number.	What work from around 3000BC has significant theorems about infinite numbers?.
demonstrated create infinite number mersenne prime.	Who demonstrated how to create an infinite number from a Mersenne prime?.
sieve euclid.	What does the Sieve of Euclid do?.
year pierre de fermat declare fermat's little theorem.	In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Fermat's little theorem?.
besides leibniz, mathematician proved validity fermat's little theorem.	Besides Leibniz, what other mathematician proved the validity of Fermat's little theorem?.
form fermat number take.	Of what form do Fermat numbers take?.
extent fermat confirm validity fermat number.	To what extent did Fermat confirm the validity of Fermat numbers?.
form mersenne prime take.	Of what form do Mersenne primes take?.
year pierre de fermat declare euler's little theorem.	In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Euler's little theorem?.
besides beibniz, mathematician proved validity euler's little theorem.	Besides Beibniz, what other mathematician proved the validity of Euler's little theorem?.
form euler number take.	Of what form do Euler numbers take?.
extent fermat confirm validity euler number.	To what extent did Fermat confirm the validity of Euler numbers?.
form euler prime take.	Of what form do Euler primes take?.
elemental way test primality integer n.	What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any integer n?.
make method trial division efficient.	What makes the method of trial division more efficient?.
trial division involves dividing n every integer greater.	Trial division involves dividing n by every integer m greater than what?.
must integer le equal performing trial division.	What must the integer m be less than or equal to when performing trial division?.
many division required verify primality number 37.	How many divisions are required to verify the primality of the number 37?.
elemental way test primality division.	What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any division?.
make method primality efficient.	What makes the method of primality more efficient?.
trial division involves dividing n every integer le.	Trial division involves dividing n by every integer m less than what?.
must integer greater equal performing trial division.	What must the integer m be greater than or equal to when performing trial division?.
many division required verify division number 37.	How many divisions are required to verify the division of the number 37?.
many modern type primality test general number n.	How many modern types of primality tests for general numbers n are there? .
name one type modern primality test.	What is the name of one type of modern primality test?.
name another type modern primality test.	What is the name of another type of modern primality test?.
type algorithm trial division.	What type of algorithm is trial division?.
using probabilistic algorithm, probability number composite expressed mathematically.	When using a probabilistic algorithm, how is the probability that the number is composite expressed mathematically?.
many modern type algorithm test general number n.	How many modern types of algorithm tests for general numbers n are there?.
name one type modern algorithm test.	What is the name of one type of modern algorithm test?.
name another type modern algorithm test.	What is the name of another type of modern algorithm test?.
type algorithm probability division.	What type of algorithm is probability division?.
using probalistic primality, probability number composite expressed mathematically.	When using a probalistic primality, how is the probability that the number is composite expressed mathematically?.
one straightforward case probabilistic test.	What is one straightforward case of a probabilistic test?.
fermat primality test depend upon.	What does the Fermat primality test depend upon?.
type number demonstrate flaw fermat primality test.	What type of numbers demonstrate a flaw with the Fermat primality test?.
name one impressive continuation fermat primality test.	What is the name of one impressive continuation of the Fermat primality test?.
name another compelling continuation fermat primality test.	What is the name of another compelling continuation of the Fermat primality test?.
one straightforward case carmichael test.	What is one straightforward case of a Carmichael test?.
carmichael primality test depend.	What does the Carmichael primality test depend on?.
type number demonstrate flaw carmichael primality test.	What type of numbers demonstrate a flaw with the Carmichael primality test?.
name one impressive continuation carmichael primality test.	What is the name of one impressive continuation of the Carmichael primality test?.
name another compelling continuation carmichael primality test.	What is the name of another compelling continuation of the Carmichael primality test?.
form sophie germain prime.	Of what form are Sophie Germain primes?.
form mersenne prime.	Of what form are Mersenne primes?.
test especially useful number form 2p - 1.	What test is especially useful for numbers of the form 2p - 1?.
name one type prime p+1 p-1 take certain shape.	What is the name of one type of prime where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?.
name another type prime p+1 p-1 take certain shape.	What is the name of another type of prime here p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?.
form sophie germain test.	Of what form are Sophie Germain tests?.
form mersenne test.	Of what form are Mersenne tests?.
test especially useful test form 2p-1.	What test is especially useful for tests of the form 2p-1?.
name one type test p+1 p-1 take certain shape.	What is the name of one type of test where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?.
name another type test p+1 p-1 take certain shape.	What is the name of another type of test where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?.
name one type computing method used find prime number.	What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find prime numbers?.
year great internet mersenne prime search project conducted.	In what year was the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search project conducted?.
great internet mersenne prime search, prize finding prime least 10 million digit.	the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search, what was the prize for finding a prime with at least 10 million digits?.
organization offer monetary award identifying prime least 100 million digit.	What organization offers monetary awards for identifying primes with at least 100 million digits?.
interval greatest prime without distinct form discovered.	In what interval are some of the greatest primes without a distinct form discovered in?.
name one type computing method used find 100 million prime.	What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find 100 million primes?.
year 10 million project conducted.	In what year were 10 million projects conducted?.
great internet mersenne prime search hat prize finding prime least 150,000 digit.	In the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search hat was the prize for finding a prime with at least 150,000 digits?.
organization offer monetary award identifying prime least 150,000 digit.	What organization offers monetary awards for identifying primes with at least 150,000 digits?.
interval greatest prime without distinct digit discovered.	In what interval are some of the greatest primes without a distinct digit discovered in?.
name function used largest integer greater number question.	What is name of the function used for the largest integer not greater than the number in question?.
first proved bertrand's postulate.	Who first proved Bertrand's postulate?.
size natural number bertrand's postulate hold.	For what size natural number does Bertrand's postulate hold?.
prime number p bertrand's postulate expressed mathematically.	How is the prime number p in Bertrand's postulate expressed mathematically?.
theorem formula frequently generates number 2 prime precisely based.	On what theorem is the formula that frequently generates the number 2 and all other primes precisely once based on?.
name function used smallest integer greater number question.	What is the name of the function used for the smallest integer not greater than the number in question?.
first proved bertrands prime.	Who first proved Bertrands prime?.
size natural number chebyshev's postulate hold.	For what size natural number does Chebyshev's postulate hold?.
prime number p chebyshev's postulate expressed mathematically.	How is the prime number p in Chebyshev's postulate expressed mathematically?.
theorem formula frequently generates number 2 prime precisely twice based.	On what theorem is the formula that frequently generates the number 2 and all other primes precisely twice based on?.
another way state condition infinitely many prime exist q coprime.	What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many primes can exist only if a and q are coprime?.
q coprime, theorem hold arithmetic progression infinite number prime.	If a and q are coprime, which theorem holds that an arithmetic progression has an infinite number of primes?.
density prime compatible modulo 9.	What is the density of all primes compatible with a modulo 9?.
q=9 a=3,6 9, many prime would progression.	If q=9 and a=3,6 or 9, how many primes would be in the progression?.
q=9 a=1,2,4,5,7, 8, many prime would progression.	If q=9 and a=1,2,4,5,7, or 8, how many primes would be in a progression?.
another way state condition infinitely many row exist q coprime.	What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many rows can exist only if a and q are coprime?.
q coprime, theorem hold arithmetic progression infinite number wrap.	If a and q are coprime, which theorem holds that an arithmetic progression has an infinite number of wraps?.
density wrap compatible modulo 9.	What is the density of all wraps compatible with a modulo 9?.
q=9 a=3, 6 9, many wrap would progression.	If q=9 and a=3, 6 or 9, how many wraps would be in the progression?.
q=9 a=1,2,4,5, 7, 8, many wrap would progression.	If q=9 and a=1,2,4,5, 7, or 8, how many wraps would be in a progression?.
function related prime number.	What function is related to prime numbers?.
type value would zeta function finite prime.	What type of value would the zeta function have if there were finite primes?.
property harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 1/4 + ... show infinite number prime.	What property of the harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 1/4 + ... shows that there is an infinite number of primes?.
mean harmonic series diverges.	What does it mean when a harmonic series diverges?.
mathematical nature basel problem.	Of what mathematical nature is the Basel problem?.
function related basel number.	What function is related to Basel numbers?.
type value would basel function finite prime.	What type of value would the Basel function have if there were finite primes?.
property harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 +1/4 ... show infinite number basel.	What property of the harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 +1/4 ... shows that there is an infinite number of Basels?.
mean basel series diverges.	What does it mean when a Basel series diverges?.
mathematical nature prime problem.	Of what mathematical nature is the prime problem?.
riemann hypothesis proposed.	When was the Riemann hypothesis proposed?.
according riemann hypothesis, zero ζ-function real part equal 1/2 except value.	According to the Riemann hypothesis, all zeroes of the ζ-function have real part equal to 1/2 except for what values of s?.
riemann hypothesis state source irregularity distribution point come.	What does the Riemann hypothesis state the source of irregularity in the distribution of points comes from?.
type prime distribution riemann hypothesis propose also true short interval near x.	What type of prime distribution does the Riemann hypothesis propose is also true for short intervals near X?.
type prime distribution characterized x/log x number le x.	What type of prime distribution is characterized about x/log x of numbers less than x?.
function hypothesis proposed.	When was the function hypothesis proposed?.
according function hypothesis, zero ζ-function real part equal 1/2 except value.	According to the function hypothesis, all zeroes of the ζ-function have real part equal to 1/2 except for what values of s?.
riemann hypothesis state source irregularity distribution math zero.	What does the Riemann hypothesis state the source of irregularity in the distribution of math zeroes from?.
type zero distribution riemann hypothesis propose also true short interval near x.	What type of zero distribution does the Riemann hypothesis propose is also true for short intervals near X?.
type zero distribution characterized x/log x number le x.	What type of zero distribution is characterized about x/log x of numbers less than x?.
landau propose four conjectural problem.	When did Landau propose his four conjectural problems?.
conjecture hold every even integer n greater 2 expressed sum two prime.	Which conjecture holds that every even integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes?.
february 2011, many number goldbach's conjecture proven.	As of February 2011, how many numbers has Goldbach's conjecture been proven to?.
theorem state large odd integer expressed sum three prime.	Which theorem states that all large odd integers can be expressed as a sum of three primes?.
theorem state every large even integer written prime summed semiprime.	Which theorem states that every large even integer can be written as a prime summed with a semiprime?.
vinogradov propose four conjectural problem.	When did Vinogradov propose his four conjectural problems?.
conjecture hold every odd integer n greater 2 expressed sum two prime.	Which conjecture holds that every odd integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes?.
february 2017, many number goldbach's conjecture proven.	As of February 2017, how many numbers has Goldbach's conjecture been proven to?.
theorem state large even integer expressed sum three prime.	Which theorem states that all large even integers can be expressed as a sum of three primes?.
theorem state every large odd integer written prime summed semiprime.	Which theorem states that every large odd integer can be written as a prime summed with a semiprime?.
conjecture hold infinite amount twin prime.	What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin primes?.
twin prime.	What is a twin prime?.
conjecture hold positive integer n, infinite amount pair consecutive prime differing 2n.	Which conjecture holds that for any positive integer n, there is an infinite amount of pairs of consecutive primes differing by 2n?.
form infinite amount prime comprise special case schinzel's hypothesis.	Of what form is the infinite amount of primes that comprise the special cases of Schinzel's hypothesis?.
conjecture hold always minimum 4 prime square consecutive prime greater 2.	What conjecture holds that there are always a minimum of 4 primes  between the squares of consecutive primes greater than 2?.
conjecture hold infinite amount twin positive.	What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin positives?.
twin positive.	What is a twin positive?.
conjecture hold negative integer n, infinite amount pair consecutive prime differing 2n.	Which conjecture holds that for any negative integer n, there is an infinite amount of pairs of consecutive primes differing by 2n?.
form infinite amount positive comprise special case schinzel's hypothesis.	Of what form is the infinite amount of positives that comprise the special cases of Schinzel's hypothesis?.
conjecture hold always minimum 1 prime square consecutive prime greater 2.	What conjecture holds that there are always a minimum of 1 prime between the squares of consecutive primes greater than 2?.
besides study prime numbers, general theory considered official example pure mathematics.	Besides the study of prime numbers, what general theory was considered the official example of pure mathematics?.
british mathematician took pride work felt military benefit.	What British mathematician took pride in doing work that he felt had no military benefit?.
discovered prime number could applied creation public key cryptography algorithm.	When was it discovered that prime numbers could applied to the creation of public key cryptography algorithms?.
besides public key cryptography, another application prime number.	Besides public key cryptography, what is another application for prime numbers?.
type number generator make use prime number.	What type of number generators make use of prime numbers?.
besides study prime numbers, general theory considered official example military.	Besides the study of prime numbers, what general theory was considered the official example of the military?.
british mathematician took pride work felt mathematical benefit.	What British mathematician took pride in doing work that he felt had no mathematical benefit?.
discovered prime number could applied creation public key military algorithm.	When was it discovered that prime numbers could be applied to the creation of public key military algorithms?.
besides public key cryptography another application military gear.	Besides public key cryptography what is another application for military gear?.
type number generator make use military gear.	What type of number generators make use of military gear?.
assuming p prime 2 5, then, according fermat's theorem, type decimal 1/p always.	Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5, then, according to Fermat's theorem, what type of decimal will 1/p always be?.
according fermat's theorem, period 1/p always assuming p prime 2 5.	According to Fermat's theorem, what period does 1/p always have assuming p is prime that is not 2 or 5?.
according wilson's theorem, factorial must divisible p integer p > 1 considered prime.	According to Wilson's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by p if some integer p > 1 is to be considered prime?.
according wilson's theorem, factorial must divisible n integer n > 4 considered composite.	According to Wilson's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by n if some integer n > 4 is to be considered composite?.
condition must satisfied order 1/p expressed base q instead base 10 still period p - 1.	What condition what must be satisfied in order for 1/p to be expressed in base q instead of base 10 and still have a period of p - 1?.
assuming p prime 2 5, according gluga's theorem, type decimal wil 1/p always.	Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5, then according to Gluga's theorem, what type of decimal wil 1/p always be?.
according gluga's theorem, period 1/p always assuming p prime 2 5.	According to Gluga's theorem, what period does 1/p always have assuming p is a prime that is not 2 or 5?.
according giuga's theorem, factorial must divisible p integer p > 1 considered prime.	According to Giuga's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by p if some integer p > 1 is to be considered prime?.
according gluga's theorem, factorial must divisible n integer n > 4 considered composite.	According to Gluga's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by n if some integer n > 4 is to be considered composite?.
condition must satisfied order p expressed base 1 instead base 10 still period p-1.	What condition must be satisfied in order for p to be expressed in base 1 instead of base 10 and still have a period of p-1?.
one type public key cryptography algorithm.	What is one type of public key cryptography algorithm?.
another type public key cryptography algorithm.	What is another type of public key cryptography algorithm?.
many bit often prime used rsa public key cryptography algorithm.	How many bits are often in the primes used for RSA public key cryptography algorithms?.
type exponentiation diffie–hellman key exchange depend.	On what type of exponentiation does the Diffie–Hellman key exchange depend on?.
many bit typically used prime diffie–hellman key exchange.	How many bits are typically used in the primes for the Diffie–Hellman key exchange?.
one type private key cryptography algorithm.	What is one type of private key cryptography algorithm?.
another type private key cryptography algorithm.	What is another type of private key cryptography algorithm?.
many bit often prime used rsa private key cryptography algorithm.	How many bits are often in the primes used for RSA private key cryptography algorithms?.
type exponentiation prime logarithm key exchange depend.	On what type of exponentiation does the prime logarithm key exchange depend on?.
many bit typically used key exchange logarithm diffie-hellman key exchange.	How many bits are typically used in the key exchange logarithms for for the Diffie-Hellman key exchange?.
type insect employ use prime number evolutionary strategy.	What type of insect employs the use of prime numbers in its evolutionary strategy?.
cicada spend majority life.	Where do cicadas spend the majority of their lives?.
7 13, year interval cicada pupate.	Other than 7 and 13, what other year interval do cicadas pupate? .
logic behind cicada prime number evolutionary strategy.	What is the logic behind the cicadas prime number evolutionary strategy?.
much larger would cicada predator population cicada outbreak occurred 14 15 year interval.	How much larger would cicada predator populations be if cicada outbreaks occurred at 14 and 15 year intervals?.
type insect employ use magicicada evolutionary strategy.	What type of insect employs the use of Magicicadas in its evolutionary strategy?.
predator spend majority life.	Where do predators spend the majority of their lives?.
7 13, year interval predator pupate.	Other than 7 and 13, what other year interval do predators pupate?.
logic behind cicada outbreak.	What is the logic behind the cicadas outbreak?.
much larger would cicada population predator outbreak occurred 14 15 year interval.	How much larger would cicada populations be if predator outbreaks occurred at 14 and 15 year intervals?.
word prime generally suggest.	What does the word prime generally suggest?.
field f containing 0 1, would prime field.	For a field F containing 0 and 1, what would be the prime field?.
mean knot considered indecomposable.	What does it mean for a knot to be considered indecomposable?.
knot distinctively indicated.	How can any knot be distinctively indicated?.
additional meaning intended word prime used.	What is an additional meaning intended when the word prime is used?.
word component generally suggest.	What does the word component generally suggest?.
field f containing 0 1, would prime knot field.	For a field F containing 0 and 1, what would be the prime knot field?.
mean knot considered p element.	What does it mean for a knot to be considered a p element?.
knot field f.	How can any knot be a field of F?.
additional meaning intended word component used.	What is an additional meaning intended when the word component is used?.
name algebraic structure addition, subtraction multiplication defined.	What is the name of an algebraic structure in which addition, subtraction and multiplication are defined?.
one general concept applies element commutative ring.	What is one general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings?.
another general concept applies element commutative ring.	What is another general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings?.
one condition element p r must satisfy order considered prime element.	What is one condition that an element p of R must satisfy in order to be considered a prime element?.
condition element irreducible.	Under what condition is an element irreducible?.
name integer addition, subtraction, multiplication defined.	What is the name of an integer in which addition, subtraction, and multiplication are defined?.
one general concept applies element general xy.	What is one general concept that applies to elements of general xy?.
another general concept applies element general xy.	What is another general concept that applies to elements of general xy?.
one condition element p $ must satisfy order considered multiplicative inverse.	What is one condition that an element p of $ must satisfy in order to be considered a multiplicative inverse?.
condition element general xy.	Under what condition is an element a general xy?.
theorem remains valid unique factorization domain.	What theorem remains valid in unique factorization domains?.
one example unique factorization domain.	What is one example of a unique factorization domain?.
form complex gaussian integer.	What form do complex Gaussian integers have? .
b represent gaussian integer expression.	What do a and b represent in a Gaussian integer expression? .
form rational prime.	Of what form are rational primes?.
theorem remains valid unique gaussian prime.	What theorem remains valid in unique Gaussian primes?.
one example unique rational prime.	What is one example of unique rational primes?.
form complex rational prime.	What form do complex rational primes have?.
b represent rational prime expression.	What do a and b represent in a rational prime expression?.
form rational gaussians.	Of what form are rational Gaussians?.
theory idea number exchanged ideal.	In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of an ideal?.
type ideal generalize prime element.	What type of ideals generalize prime elements?.
type number theory utilizes study prime ideal.	What type of number theory utilizes and studies prime ideals?.
theorem simplified lasker–noether theorem.	Which theorem can be simplified to the Lasker–Noether theorem?.
type commutative ring lasker–noether theorem express every ideal intersection primary ideal.	What type of commutative ring does the Lasker–Noether theorem express every ideal as an intersection of primary ideals in?.
theory idea number exchanged noetherian arithmetic.	In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of Noetherian arithmetic?.
type ideal generalize noetherian arithmetic.	What type of ideals generalize Noetherian arithmetic?.
type number theory utilizes study noetherian arithmetic.	What type of number theory utilizes and studies Noetherian arithmetic?.
theorem simplified prime ideal theorem.	Which theorem can be simplified to the prime ideals theorem?.
type commutative ring prime ideal theorem express every ideal intersection noetherian arithmetic.	What type of commutative ring does the prime ideals theorem express every ideal as an intersection of Noetherian arithmetic in?.
point algebro-geometric object.	What are the points of algebro-geometric objects?.
factorization prime ideal approximate.	What does factorization of prime ideals approximate?.
type ring prime ideal used validating quadratic reciprocity.	In what type of ring can prime ideals be used for validating quadratic reciprocity?.
quadratic reciprocity seek achieve.	What does quadratic reciprocity seek to achieve?.
point quadratic object.	What are the points of quadratic objects?.
factorization quadratic equation approximate.	What does factorization of quadratic equations approximate?.
type ring prime ideal used validating number theory.	In what type of ring can prime ideals be used for validating number theory?.
geometry ramification seek achieve.	What does geometry ramification seek to achieve?.
exist quadratic equation integer.	What exist both in quadratic equations and integers?.
happens norm number multiplied p.	What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by p?.
may general global field transferred.	To what may general global fields be transferred to or from?.
completing q respect produce field real number.	Completing Q with respect to what will produce the field of real numbers?.
principle highlight significance prime number theory.	What principle highlights the significance of primes in number theory.
happens norm number multiplied q.	What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by Q?.
may general arithmetic question transferred.	To what may general arithmetic questions be transferred to or from?.
completing p respect produce field real number.	Completing p with respect to what will produce the field of real numbers?.
principle highlight significance real number.	What principle highlights the significance of real numbers?.
get smaller number prime.	What gets smaller when a number is prime?.
french composer wrote ametrical music using prime number.	Which French composer wrote ametrical music using prime numbers?.
one work olivier messiaen.	What is one work by Olivier Messiaen?.
another piece created olivier messiaen.	What is another piece created by Olivier Messiaen?.
etude neumes rythmiques prime 41, 43, 47 53 appear.	In which etude of Neumes rythmiques do the primes 41, 43, 47 and 53 appear in?.
messiaen say composition prime number inspired.	Messiaen says that composition with prime numbers was inspired by what?.
french composer wrote metrical music using prime number.	Which French composer wrote metrical music using prime numbers?.
one work neumes.	What is one work by Neumes?.
another piece created neumes.	What is another piece created by Neumes?.
etude neumes rythmiques prime 19 appear.	IN which etude of Neumes rythmiques does the prime 19 appear in?.
neumes say composition prime number inspired.	What does Neumes say that composition with prime numbers was inspired by?.
rhine empty.	Where does the Rhine empty?.
largest city rhine run.	What is the largest city the Rhine runs through? .
river larger rhine.	What river is larger than the Rhine?.
long rhine.	How long is the Rhine?.
rhine.	Where is the Rhine? .
country rhine empty.	What country does the Rhine empty?.
long rhine.	How long is the Rhine? .
smallest nation rhine run.	What is the smallest nation that the Rhine runs through?.
long netherlands.	How long is the Netherlands?.
country danube empty.	In what country does the Danube empty?.
population netherlands.	What is the population of the Netherlands?.
long germany.	How long is the Germany?.
name rhine derive.	Where does the name Rhine derive from? .
french name rhine.	What is the French name for the Rhine? .
proto-germanic adaptation name rhine.	What is the Proto-Germanic adaptation of the name of the Rhine?.
century name rhine come.	What century did the name of the Rhine come from?.
name rhine come.	What does the name The Rhine come from? .
rhine called french.	What is the Rhine called in French?.
proto-germanic adoption gaulish name rhine.	What is the Proto-Germanic adoption of the Gaulish name of the Rhine?.
rhine called dutch.	What is the Rhine called in Dutch?.
dutch name rhine originally spelled.	How was the Dutch name for the Rhine originally spelled? .
variant form name rhine ancient language derived.	Where are the variant forms of the name of the Rhine in ancient languages derived from?.
century germanic vocalism rin come.	What century did the Germanic vocalism Rin come from?.
century spelling rh- english rhine come.	What century did the spelling with Rh- in English Rhine come from?.
century french adopt germanic vocalism rin-.	What century did the French adopt the Germanic vocalism Rin-?.
conventional method measure rhine.	What is the conventional method to measure the Rhine? .
scale measure rhine introduced.	When was the scale to measure the Rhine introduced? .
rhine river's measurement begin.	Where does the Rhine river's measurement begin?.
rhine river's measurement end.	Where does the Rhine river's measurement end?.
shortened rhine river.	What has shortened the Rhine river? .
conventional measurement rhine.	What is the conventional measurement of the Rhine? .
measurement rhine introduced.	When was the measurement of the Rhine introduced? .
rhine begin.	Where does the Rhine begin? .
rhine end.	Where does the Rhine end?.
rhine shortened.	Why has the Rhine been shortened?.
length old rhine bridge constance.	What is the length of the Old Rhine Bridge at Constance?.
length hoek van holland conventionally measured.	What is the length of Hoek van Holland conventionally measured in?.
year old rhine bridge shortened.	In what year was the Old Rhine Bridge shortened?.
year hoek van holland begin canalization project.	In what year did Hoek van Holland begin canalization projects?.
long lake constance.	How long is Lake Constance?.
near chur, direction rhine turn.	Near Chur, which direction does the Rhine turn? .
long section rhine near chur.	How long is the section of the Rhine near Chur?.
alpine valley rhine flow.	What is the alpine valley that the Rhine flows through?.
natural dam rhine flow.	What is the natural dam that the Rhine flows through?.
country rhine separate switzerland.	What is the other country the Rhine separates Switzerland to? .
rhine make distinctive turn north.	Where does the Rhine make a distinctive turn to the north? .
long section turn north.	How long is the section that turns north? .
height section turn north.	What is the height of the section that turns north? .
glacial alpine valley known.	What is the glacial alpine valley known as?.
rhine form border austria country.	The Rhine forms the border between Austria and what other country? .
rhine make distinctive turn south.	Where does the Rhine make a distinctive turn to the south?.
wide glacial alpine valley known rhine valley.	How wide is the glacial alpine valley known as the Rhine Valley?.
name natural dam connects rhine valley.	What is the name of natural dam that connects the Rhine Valley?.
long austria.	How long is Austria?.
height swiss canton.	What is the height of the Swiss canton?.
rhine form inland delta lake.	The Rhine forms an inland delta into which lake?.
delta rhine delimited west.	What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the west by?.
delta rhine delimited east.	What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the east by?.
local alemannic dialect, singular form name island formed rhine.	In local Alemannic dialect, what is the the singular form of the names of the islands formed by the Rhine?.
animal rhine's island named.	What is the animal that the Rhine's islands are named after?.
inland delta mouth rhine lake.	The inland delta at the mouth of the Rhine is with what Lake?.
delimits delta rhine east.	What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the East?.
delimits delta rhine west.	What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the west?.
rhine branch form austria.	What did the Rhine branch off to form in Austria?.
almannic dialect describe island outside austria.	What is the Almannic dialect to describe the islands outside in Austria?.
form lake constance inland delta.	What forms Lake Constance into an inland delta?.
delta delimited south.	What is the delta delimited in the South by?.
delta delimited north.	What is the delta delimited in the North by?.
one mammal animal life nature reserve bird sanctuary.	What is one of the mammal animals that lives in the nature reserve and bird sanctuary?.
animal sometimes swim rhine.	What animal sometimes swims in the Rhine?.
upper canal regulation rhine.	Where is the upper canal regulation of the Rhine?.
lower canal regulation rhine.	What is the lower canal regulation of the Rhine?.
besides constant flooding, else regulation rhine.	Besides constant flooding, why else was there regulation of the Rhine?.
dornbirner ach diverted, rhine flow.	After the Dornbirner Ach was diverted, where does the Rhine flow now?.
expected continuous input sediment dornbirner ach.	What is expected with the continuous input of sediment into the Dornbirner Ach?.
rhine regulated lower canal.	Where was the Rhine regulated with a lower canal?.
rhine regulated upper canal.	Where was the Rhine regulated with an upper canal?.
rhine regulated.	Why was the Rhine regulated? .
diverted flow parallel rhine.	What was diverted and now flows parallel to the Rhine?.
cause lake near rhine silt.	What will cause the lake near the Rhine to silt up?.
western canal regulation rhine.	Where is the western canal regulation of the Rhine?.
eastern canal regulation rhine.	Where is the eastern canal regulation of the Rhine?.
water lighter color rhine.	What has water that is a lighter color than the Rhine?.
lake tuggenersee regulated.	Why was Lake Tuggenersee regulated?.
lake longer silt.	What lake no longer has any silt?.
many body water make lake constance.	How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance? .
lake connects rhine lake constance.	What lake connects the Rhine to Lake Constance? .
obersee mean.	What does Obersee mean?.
untersee mean.	What does Untersee mean?.
border rhine flow south.	Which border does the Rhine flow from the south?.
many body water make lake constance.	How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance?.
besides germany switzerland, else lake constance.	Besides Germany and Switzerland, where else is Lake Constance?.
mountainous region lake constance.	What mountainous region is Lake Constance by?.
border swiss austria.	Where is the border of Swiss and Austria?.
lake constance separate german state bavaria one.	Lake Constance separates the German state Bavaria from what other one?.
many body water make rhine.	How many bodies of water make up the Rhine?.
border bavaria.	Where is the border of Bavaria?.
border germany.	Where is the border of Germany?.
border rhine flow north.	Which border does the Rhine flow from the north?.
many body water make obersee.	How many bodies of water make up the Obersee?.
rhine water fall depth rheinbrech.	Why does the Rhine water fall into depths at the Rheinbrech?.
cold warm water meet warm water.	Where does the cold and warm water meet the warm water?.
island german shore rhine warm cold water meet.	What is the Island off of the German shore of the Rhine that this warm and cold water meet?.
lake german island mainau receives fraction rhine's flow.	What Lake in a German island Mainau receives a fraction of the Rhine's flow?.
much lake connecting rhine see german island.	How much of the lake connecting with the Rhine can you see from the German islands?.
cold water mix lake constance.	Where does the cold water mix with Lake Constance?.
island cold water flow rhine lake constance flow.	What island does the cold water flow of the Rhine and Lake Constance flow to?.
small fraction cold water flow lake constance go lake.	A small fraction of the cold water flow from Lake Constance goes to what other lake?.
word rheinrinne translate.	What does the word Rheinrinne translate to?.
flow rhine visible depend.	What does the flow of the Rhine being visible depend on?.
water abruptly fall depth due greater density warmer water.	What water abruptly falls into the depths due to the greater density of warmer water?.
word seerhein translate.	What does the word Seerhein translate to?.
water constantly visible along entire length lake.	What water is constantly visible along the entire length of the lake?.
large part flow diverted island mainau.	A large part of the flow is diverted off the island of Mainau into where?.
water cold green water.	What water has cold green waters?.
rhine emerges lake constance, direction flow.	After the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance, what direction does it flow?.
major tributary rhine.	What is the major tributary of the Rhine?.
much water aare give rhine.	How much water does the Aare give to the Rhine?.
highest point rhine basin.	Where is the highest point of the Rhine basin?.
so-called rhine knee.	Where is the so-called Rhine Knee?.
rhine emerges lake constance way flow.	When the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance which way does it flow?.
major tributary rhine.	What is the major tributary for the Rhine? .
rhine get much water aare.	The Rhine gets how much water from the Aare?.
highest point rhine basin called.	What is the highest point of the Rhine basin called?.
there's rough border switzerland country formed rhine.	There's a rough border between Switzerland and what other country formed by the Rhine?.
major tributary lake constance.	What is the major tributary of Lake Constance?.
hochrhein double rhine's water discharge amount.	The Hochrhein more than doubles the Rhine's water discharge to what amount?.
lake constance emerge.	Where does Lake Constance emerge from?.
lake contains part rhine fall.	What lake contains part of the Rhine Falls?.
lowest point rhine basin called.	What is the lowest point of the Rhine basin called?.
first major city stream rhine.	What is the first major city in the stream of the Rhine?.
bend rhine basel called.	What is the bend of Rhine in Basel called? .
boundary high upper rhine.	What is the boundary between the High and Upper Rhine? .
long upper rhine plain.	How long is the Upper Rhine Plain?.
wide upper rhine plain.	How wide is the Upper Rhine Plain? .
first major city course rhine.	What is the first major city in the course of the Rhine?.
first major bend rhine called.	What is the first major bend in the Rhine called?.
bend rhine go west direction.	The bend on the Rhine goes from the West to what direction?.
end bend rhine.	What ends at this bend in the Rhine?.
legal boundary behind high upper rind.	What is the legal boundary behind the High and Upper Rind?.
bend called overall direction rhine change east north.	What is the bend called where the overall direction of the Rhine changes from East to North?.
last major bend rhine called.	What is the last major bend in the Rhine called?.
last major city stream rhine called.	What is the last major city in the stream of the Rhine called?.
long central bridge.	How long is the Central Bridge?.
wide mainz basin.	How wide is the Mainz Basin?.
century program straighten rhine.	Which century was there a program to straighten the Rhine? .
happened rate flow rhine rhine straightening program.	What happened to the rate of flow in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program?.
happened ground water rhine rhine straightening program.	What happened to the ground water in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program?.
canal dug france carry rhine's water.	Which canal was dug in France to carry Rhine's water?.
bassin de compensation de plobsheim alsace.	What is the Bassin de compensation de Plobsheim in Alsace? .
region rhine changed rhine straightening program.	What region of the Rhine was changed by the Rhine Straightening program?.
rhine straightening program begin.	When did the Rhine Straightening program begin?.
happened rate flow rhine straightening program.	What happened with the rate of flow in the Rhine with the straightening program?.
happened ground water level rhine straightening program.	What happened with the ground water level with the Rhine straightening program?.
carry significant amount rhine flow france.	What carries a significant amount of the Rhine flow through France?.
century grand canal d'alsace ended.	In which century was the Grand Canal d'Alsace ended?.
decreased rate flow caused ground water level rise.	What decreased the rate of flow and caused the ground water level to rise?.
caused lower rhine region changed significantly.	What caused the Lower Rhine region to be changed significantly?.
century dead branch dry.	In what century did all of the dead branches dry up?.
century amount forest flood plain increase.	In what century did the amount of forests on the flood plain increase?.
longest river germany.	What is the longest river in Germany?.
rhine encounter tributary neckar.	Where does the Rhine encounter it's tributary the Neckar? .
average discharge moselle rhine.	What is the average discharge of the Moselle to the Rhine?.
main tributary rhine go northeastern france part belgium.	What is a main tributary to the Rhine that goes through Northeastern France and part of Belgium?.
average width rhine.	What is the average width of the Rhine?.
rhine longest river country.	The Rhine is the longest river in what country?.
country rhine encounter main tributary.	Which country does the Rhine encounter it's main tributaries?.
tributary germany contributes.	Which of the tributaries in Germany contributes most? .
country moselle take rhine.	What country does the Moselle take the Rhine to?.
much rhine discharge dutch border.	How much does the Rhine discharge at the Dutch border?.
shortest river germany.	What is the shortest river in Germany?.
average discharge moselle neckar.	What is the average discharge of the Moselle to the Neckar?.
wide jura mountain.	How wide are the Jura Mountains?.
much water rhine discharge french border.	How much water does the Rhine discharge at the French border?.
wide moselle.	How wide is the Moselle?.
flow bingen bonn.	What flows between the Bingen and Bonn?.
gorge bingen bonn.	What gorge is between the Bingen and Bonn?.
rhine gorge formed.	How was the Rhine Gorge formed?.
area called near rhine gorge castle middle age.	What is the area called near the Rhine Gorge with castles from the middle ages?.
flow bingen bonn.	What flows between Bingen and Bonn?.
middle rhine flow bingen bonn.	Where does the Middle Rhine flow between Bingen and Bonn?.
rhine gorge known.	What is the Rhine Gorge known for?.
section rhine gorge recognized unesco called.	What is the section of the Rhine Gorge recognized by UNESCO called?.
year "the romantic rhine" site built.	In what year was "the Romantic Rhine" site built?.
many country village found unesco world heritage site.	How many country villages can be found at the UNESCO World Heritage Site?.
formation created erosion ceased.	What formation was created because the erosion ceased?.
many vineyard located "the romantic rhine".	How many vineyards are located in the "the Romantic Rhine"?.
flow bingen bonn.	What flows after Bingen and Bonn?.
contributed water pollution rhine.	What contributed to water pollution in the Rhine? .
bulk factory concentrated along rhine.	Where are a bulk of factories concentrated along the Rhine?.
europe's largest inland port.	What is Europe's largest inland port?.
rive join rhine duisburg.	What rive joins the Rhine in Duisburg? .
ruhr provide community.	What does the Ruhr provide to it's community?.
industry rhine 1980s.	What did industry do to the Rhine until the 1980s?.
section rhine factory found.	Which section of the Rhine is most factories found?.
country factory pollute rhine.	What country has the most factories that pollute the Rhine?.
city largest inland port europe.	What city has the largest inland port in Europe?.
river join rhine duisburg.	Which river joins the Rhine in Duisburg?.
major source water pollution early 1980s.	What was a major source of water pollution after the early 1980s?.
least amount factory found.	Where are the least amount of the factories found?.
europe's smallest inland port.	What is Europe's smallest inland port?.
river separate rhine duisburg.	What river separates the Rhine from Duisburg?.
river considered clean nowadays.	What river is considered to be not so clean nowadays?.
besides viniculture, what's dominant economic sector middle rhine.	Besides viniculture, what's a dominant economic sector of the Middle Rhine?.
there's unesco world heritage site rhine gorge koblenz.	There's a UNESCO World Heritage site in the Rhine Gorge between the Koblenz and what?.
famous rock near sanke goarshausen.	What is the famous rock near Sanke Goarshausen?.
considered epitome rhine romanticism.	What is considered the epitome of the Rhine romanticism? .
besides viniculture, dominate economic sector middle rhine.	Besides viniculture, what is the other dominate economic sector in the middle rhine?.
rhine gorge listed.	What is the Rhine Gorge listed as?.
rhine gorge koblenz city.	The Rhine Gorge is between Koblenz and what other city?.
famous rock called rhine flow around.	What is the famous rock called that the Rhine flows around?.
famous rock rhine flow around.	Where is the famous rock the Rhine flows around?.
least dominant economic sector middle rhine area.	What the least dominant economic sectors in the Middle Rhine area?.
located rüdesheim rhein koblenz.	What is located after Rüdesheim am Rhein and Koblenz?.
removed list unesco world heritage site.	What was removed from the list of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites?.
name famous rock rhine flow.	What is the name of the famous rock that the Rhine flows into?.
settlement located.	Where are the most settlements located?.
city biggest port germany.	What city has the biggest port in Germany?.
canal wesel.	What is the Canal in Wesel? .
wessel-datteln canal run parallel.	What does the Wessel-Datteln canal run parallel to?.
largest suspension bridge germany.	What is the largest suspension bridge in Germany?.
wide rhine germany emmrich clef.	How wide is the Rhine in Germany between Emmrich and Cleves?.
part rhine flow north rhine-westphalia.	What part of the Rhine flows through North Rhine-Westphalia?.
region called largest conurbation rhine.	What is the region called that is the largest conurbation of the Rhine?.
largest port europe called.	What is the largest port in Europe called?.
name longest bridge germany.	What is the name of the longest bridge in Germany?.
wide rhine germany.	How wide is the Rhine in Germany?.
upper rhine flow.	Where does the Upper Rhine flow through?.
bank usually sparsely populated lack industrialization.	What banks are usually sparsely populated and lack industrialization?.
city one smallest port germany.	What city has one of the smallest ports in Germany?.
name shortest suspension bridge germany.	What is the name of the shortest suspension bridge in Germany?.
wide second east-west shipping route.	How wide is the second east-west shipping route?.
dutch name rhine.	What is the Dutch name for the Rhine?.
water flow rhine merge flowing merwede.	What does the water flow of the Rhine merge with after flowing through Merwede?.
much water flow waal get rhine.	How much of the water flow does the Waal get from the Rhine?.
direction two third rhine flow outside germany.	Which direction does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany?.
two third rhine flow outside germany.	Where does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany?.
rhine merge outside germany.	What does the Rhine merge with outside of Germany?.
what's name rhine branch near dordrecht.	What's the name of where the Rhine branches off near Dordrecht?.
much water flow volume rhine flow farther east.	How much of the of the water flow volume of the Rhine flows farther east?.
two third rhine flow inside germany.	Where do two thirds of the Rhine flow inside of Germany?.
sea rhine flow.	What sea does the Rhine flow out of?.
branch away dordrecht.	What branches off away from Dordrecht?.
two third rhine flow maas, doe one third flow.	If two thirds of the Rhine flows through the Maas, where doe the other one third flow through?.
rhine redistributes ijssel body.	The Rhine redistributes into the Ijssel and what other body?.
nederrikn's name change.	What does the Nederrikn's name change into?.
lek join.	Where does the Lek join? .
two third rhine flow waal, third flow.	If two thirds of the Rhine flows through Waal, where does the other third flow through?.
ijssel, water pannerdens kanaal redsitrubute.	Other than the Ijssel, where does the water from the Pannerdens Kanaal redsitrubute?.
much rhine flow ijssel carry.	How much of the Rhine flow does Ijssel carry?.
nederrijn change name.	What does the Nederrijn change it's name to?.
nederrijn change name.	Where does the Nederrijn change it's name?.
much water flow pannerdens kanaal.	How much water flows out of the Pannerdens Kanaal?.
ijssel nederrijn redistribute.	Where does the IJssel and Nederrijn redistribute into?.
lek separate.	Where does the Lek separate?.
much noord river flow north sea.	How much of the Noord River flows into the North Sea?.
lek change name.	What does the Lek change its name to?.
name smaller stream along region northern germany.	What is the name for the smaller streams along the region northern Germany?.
smaller stream used.	The smaller streams are used for what?.
name old north branch rhine.	What is the name of the old north branch of the Rhine?.
translation old north branch rhe rhine.	What is the translation of the old north branch of rhe Rhine?.
part rhine flow west katwijk.	What part of the Rhine flows west at Katwijk?.
name used larger stream farther north.	What name is used only for larger streams farther to the north?.
stream continue carry water rhine.	What streams continue to carry water from the Rhine?.
old south branch rhine called.	What is the the old south branch of the Rhine called?.
rhine took right turn create.	When the Rhine took a right turn what did it create?.
age lime germanicus built.	During what ages were the Limes Germanicus built?.
name delta netherlands.	What is the name of the Delta in the Netherlands? .
delta netherlands begin.	Where does the Delta in the Netherlands begin?.
nickname delta netherlands.	What is the nickname for the Delta in the Netherlands?.
least important natural region netherlands.	What is the least important natural region of the Netherlands?.
end near millingen aan de rijn.	What ends near the Millingen aan de Rijn?.
contributes least amount water area.	What contributes the least amount of water to the area?.
another name lake constance.	What is another name for Lake Constance?.
end delta.	What ends in the same delta?.
millingen aan de rijn rhine splits, change name.	At Millingen aan de Rijn where the Rhine splits, what does it change it's name to?.
many main flow branched nederrijn.	How many main flows are branched off from the Nederrijn?.
largest main branch rhine.	What is the largest main branch of the Rhine?.
english translation het scheur.	What is the English translation of Het Scheur?.
translation oude maas.	What is the translation of Oude Maas?.
southern flow retains name ijssel flow.	The southern flow retains the name IJssel until it flows into what?.
beneden merwede branch northern branch.	The Beneden Merwede branches off from the northern branch into what?.
smallest northern main branch begin.	What does the smallest and northern main branch begins as?.
many flow carry insignificant amount water.	How many more flows carry insignificant amounts of water?.
flood impacted meuse.	What flood impacted the Meuse?.
year flood impacted meuse take place.	What year did the flood that impacted the Meuse take place?.
meuse flow flood.	Where did the Meuse flow before the flood? .
merwede-oude maas form waal lek.	What did the Merwede-Oude Maas form with Waal and Lek?.
meuse waal merge.	When did the Meuse and Waal merge?.
meuse waal diverge upstream gorinchem.	When did the Meuse and Waal diverge further upstream at Gorinchem?.
year st. elizabeth born.	What year was St. Elizabeth born?.
year st. elizabeth flooded part north sea.	What year was it when St. Elizabeth flooded part of the North Sea?.
flow former bay holland diep.	What flows out of the former bay Hollands Diep?.
year st. elizabeth live holland diep bay.	From what years did St. Elizabeth live in the Hollands Diep bay?.
term closing river longer connected.	What is the term for closing off rivers that are no longer connected?.
closed river serve close.	What do closed rivers serve as after they close?.
changed rhine's delta.	What changed the Rhine's Delta?.
construction changed rhine's delta.	When was the construction that changed the Rhine's Delta?.
one aspect hydrography former delta characterized.	What is one aspect of the hydrography of the former delta characterized by?.
changed delta first half 20th century.	What changed the Delta in the first half of the 20th Century?.
century marine bay join sea.	In what century did the marine bays join the sea?.
water run sea former marine bay.	What water runs out of the sea and out of the former marine bay?.
type delta rhine-meuse.	What type of Delta is the Rhine-Meuse?.
besides rivers, shape sedimentation river.	Besides rivers, what shapes the sedimentation of the rivers?.
high tide risk near land.	What does a high tide risk near lands? .
brakel city landward tidal influence detected.	Between Brakel and what other city can the most landward tidal influence be detected?.
shaped sedimentation river tidal current.	What was not shaped by sedimentation of the rivers and tidal currents?.
area delta work constructed.	What area was the Delta Works constructed between?.
weak tidal current.	What can weak tidal currents do?.
produce lot sedimentation flow surrounding river.	What produces a lot of sedimentation that flows into the surrounding rivers?.
present mediterranean sea descends sea.	The present Mediterranean Sea descends from what sea?.
period opened tethys ocean.	What period opened the Tethys Ocean?.
period plate reverse direction compress tethys floor.	What period did plates reverse directions to compress the Tethys floor?.
microplates squeezing rotating created feature.	Microplates squeezing and rotating created the features of what?.
pushed pyrenees.	What pushed up the Pyrenees?.
period closed tethys ocean.	What period closed up the Tethys Ocean?.
period southern europe discovered.	During what period was southern Europe discovered?.
jurassic period end.	When did the Jurassic Period end?.
period tethys floor discovered.	During what period was the Tethys floor discovered?.
year mediterranean sea flow tethys sea.	Between which years did the Mediterranean Sea flow into the Tethys sea?.
rift system developed alpine orogeny.	What rift system developed in the Alpine orogeny?.
element rift system alpine orogeny southwest germany.	What elements from the rift system in the Alpine orogeny in Southwest Germany?.
time river system develop upper rhine graben.	What time did a river system develop in the Upper Rhine Graben?.
rhine river drained northern flank alp.	The Rhine and what other river drained the northern flanks of the alps?.
drained southern flank alp.	What drained the southern flanks of the Alps?.
continued southward also considered first rhine river.	What continued southward and is also considered the first Rhine river?.
ongoing alpine orogeny cause eocene.	What did the ongoing Alpine orogeny cause before the Eocene?.
period alpine orogeny end.	During what period did the Alpine orogeny end?.
rhine extend watershed southward.	How did the Rhine extend watershed southward? .
period rhine capture stream.	What period did the Rhine capture streams?.
stream rhine captured.	Where are the streams the Rhine captured?.
caused rhine extend watershed northward.	What caused the Rhine to extend its watershed northward?.
vosges mountain captured rhine.	When were the Vosges Mountains captured by the Rhine?.
northern alp flooded.	What were the northern Alps flooded by?.
captured vosges mountain.	What captured the Vosges Mountains?.
mountain range contains lake constance.	What mountain range contains Lake Constance?.
period 2.5 million year ago.	What period was 2.5 million years ago?.
many major ice age occurred.	How many major ice ages have occurred? .
far sea level drop ice age.	How far did the sea level drop in the ice ages?.
early pleistocene, direction rhine flow.	In early Pleistocene, what direction did the Rhine flow?.
glacial times, mouth rhine located.	During glacial times, where was the mouth of the Rhine located?.
long ice age last.	How long did the Ice Ages last?.
high sea level rise ice age.	How high did the sea level rise during the ice ages?.
rhine travel southwest north sea.	When did the Rhine travel southwest into the North Sea?.
country english channel located.	What country is the English Channel located in?.
last glacial start.	When did the last glacial start?.
last glacial end.	When did the last glacial end?.
direction rhine flow last cold phase.	Which direction did the Rhine flow during the last cold phase?.
much lower north sea last cold phase today.	How much lower was the North Sea in the last cold phase than it is today?.
besides north sea irish channel, else lowered last cold phase.	Besides the North Sea and the Irish Channel, what else was lowered in the last cold phase?.
pleistocene begin.	When did the the Pleistocene begin?.
last glacial maximum peak.	When did the Last Glacial Maximum peak?.
atlantic ocean flow.	What does the Atlantic Ocean flow into?.
sea level irish channel.	What is the sea level of the Irish Channel?.
sea level english channel.	What is the sea level of the English Channel?.
source rhine last ice age.	What was the source of the Rhine in the last Ice Age?.
stretched across middle europe last ice age.	What stretched across middle Europe in the last ice age?.
last glacial maximum.	When was the Last Glacial Maximum?.
covered scandinavia, baltics, scotland, alp last ice age.	What covered Scandinavia, the Baltics, Scotland, and the Alps in the last Ice Age?.
term wind-blown dust tundra.	What is the term for wind-blown dust in a tundra?.
source rhine current last ice age.	What was the source of the Rhine during the current last Ice Age?.
flowed tundra.	What flowed through the tundra?.
ice-sheets cover asia.	When did ice-sheets cover Asia?.
alp formed.	When were the Alps formed?.
europe slowly begin warm last ice age.	When did Europe slowly begin to warm up from the last Ice Age?.
frozen subsoil expanded alpine glacier begin.	What did frozen subsoil and expanded alpine glaciers begin to do?.
discharge glacier go europe last ice age.	Where did the discharge from glaciers go in Europe in the last Ice Age?.
rapid warming begin help vegetation.	When did rapid warming begin and help vegetation?.
europe fully forested recovered last ice age.	When was Europe fully forested and recovered from the last Ice Age?.
many year take frozen subsoil warm.	How many years did it take for the frozen subsoil to warm up?.
many year take spring snow cover melt.	How many years did it take for the Spring snow covers to melt?.
rhine help expand.	What did the Rhine help to expand?.
exposed former coast europe.	What exposed the former coasts of Europe?.
tide current similar current system begin.	When did tides and currents similar to our current system begin?.
natural sedimentation rhine compensate transgression bby sea.	Why did natural sedimentation by the Rhine compensate the transgression bby the sea?.
long rhine coastline location.	How long has the Rhine coastline been in the same location?.
current sea level rising.	Why is the current sea level rising?.
quickly sea level rising.	How quickly is the sea level rising?.
tide current reach highest sea-level rise.	When did tides and currents reach the highest sea-level rise?.
quickly sea level dropping.	How quickly is the sea level dropping?.
long ongoing tectonic subsidence southern north sea happening.	How long has the ongoing tectonic subsidence in the southern North Sea been happening for?.
high natural sedimentation rhine.	How high is the natural sedimentation by the Rhine?.
old north sea.	How old is the North Sea?.
holocene.	When was the Holocene?.
rhine occupy holocene.	Where did the Rhine occupy during the Holocene?.
country rhine continue rise holocene.	What country did the Rhine continue to rise during the holocene?.
formation holocene rhine-meuse delta begin.	When did the formation of the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta begin?.
holocene end.	When did the Holocene end?.
holocene rhine-meuse delta stop forming.	When did the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta stop forming?.
peel boundary fault discovered.	When was the Peel Boundary Fault discovered?.
netherlands begin occupy late-glacial valley.	When did the Netherlands begin to occupy the Late-Glacial valley?.
human started impacting delta.	When have humans started impacting the delta?.
increased rhine land clearance upland area.	What increased in the Rhine because of the land clearance in the upland areas?.
increased sediment delta growth also produced rhine.	What has increased sediment and delta growth also produced in the Rhine?.
many avulsion occurred past 6000 yea.	How many avulsions have occurred in the past 6000 yeas?.
embankment major rhine distributary take palce.	When did embankment of the major Rhine distributaries take palce?.
long human impacting delta.	How long have humans been impacting the delta for?.
many year bronze age agriculture gone.	How many years has Bronze Age agriculture gone on for?.
many upland area central germany.	How many upland areas are in central Germany?.
long peat mining roman time last.	How long did peat mining from the Roman times last for?.
century roman time take place within.	What centuries did the Roman times take place within?.
branch waal nederrijn-lek discharge.	Where do the branches Waal and Nederrijn-Lek discharge to?.
waal nederrijn-lek discharge throguh.	What do the Waal and the Nederrijn-Lek discharge throguh?.
ijssel branch flow.	Where does the Ijssel branch flow?.
zuider zee brackish lagoon change.	What did the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon change into?.
many branch rhine branch.	How many branches does the Rhine branch into?.
north sea discharge.	Where does the North Sea discharge into?.
zuider zee brackish lagoon discovered.	When was the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon discovered?.
year stop digging pannerdens canal.	What year did they stop digging the Pannerdens canal?.
many branch zuider zee brackish lagoon.	How many branches does the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon have?.
century north sea discharge nederrijn river.	In what century did the North Sea discharge into the Nederrijn river?.
rhine first discovered.	When was the Rhine first discovered?.
rhine first formed boundary gaul else.	The Rhine first formed a boundary between Gaul and what else?.
since rhine part areal hallstatt culture.	Since when was the Rhine part of the areal of Hallstatt culture?.
first wrote rhine's discovery border.	Who first wrote about the Rhine's discovery and border?.
herodotus discover rhine.	When did Herodotus discover the Rhine?.
herodotus traveled boundary.	Herodotus traveled between what boundary?.
century hallstatt culture discovered.	What century was the Hallstatt culture discovered?.
century maurus servius honoratus give commentary aeneid vergil herodotus.	What century did Maurus Servius Honoratus give his Commentary on the Aeneid of Vergil to Herodotus?.
augustus die.	When did Augustus die?.
rhine river accepted germanic frontier.	The Rhine and what other river were accepted as the Germanic frontier?.
rhine stop roman boundary.	When did the Rhine stop being the Roman boundary?.
upper rhine upper danube crossed.	Where are the upper Rhine and upper Danube crossed?.
direction roman use drift rhine.	Which direction did Romans use to drift through the Rhine?.
augustus find rome.	When did Augustus find Rome?.
people rome accept fertile plain.	What did the people of Rome accept as the only fertile plain?.
black forest discovered.	When was the Black Forest discovered?.
roman empire fall.	When did the Roman empire fall?.
population occupied foreign territory modern baden württemberg.	What populations occupied the foreign territory between the modern Baden and Württemberg?.
many legion five base along rhine roman.	How many legions in five bases were along the Rhine by the Romans?.
number legion roman time depend.	What did the number of legions in Roman times depend on?.
vetra germanica xx valeria two legion.	Vetra and I Germanica and XX Valeria were the two legions for what?.
colonia agrippina's original name.	What was the Colonia Agrippina's original name?.
colonia agrippina's original name translate.	What does Colonia Agrippina's original name translate into?.
many war roman along rhine.	How many wars did the Romans have along the Rhine?.
first roman war.	When was the first Roman war?.
many legion germania inferior existed.	How many legions for the Germania Inferior existed?.
legion roman enter side empire.	What legion did the Romans enter from the other side of the empire?.
pannonian troop ally.	Who were the Pannonian troops allies with?.
germanic tribe cross rhine migrate.	When did Germanic tribes cross the Rhine to migrate?.
germanic tribe establish help rhine.	What did Germanic tribes establish with help from the Rhine?.
translation siebengebirge.	What is the translation of Siebengebirge?.
hero killed dragon drachenfels.	Who is the hero who killed a dragon on the Drachenfels?.
threw gold rhine, according legend.	Who threw gold into the Rhine, according to legend?.
"germanic heroic age" end.	When did the "Germanic Heroic Age" end?.
hagen find thrown river.	What did Hagen find after he was thrown into the river?.
kind rock hero siegfried discover.	What kind of rock did the hero Siegfried discover?.
hero siegfried discover rock.	Where did the hero Siegfried discover the rock?.
threw hagen river.	Who threw Hagen into the river?.
rhine become border francia.	When did the Rhine become borders with Francia?.
rhine fully within holy roman empire.	When was the Rhine fully within the Holy Roman Empire?.
rhine flowed swabia, franconia location 10th century.	The Rhine flowed through Swabia, Franconia and what other location in the 10th Century?.
sold upper rhine burgundy.	Who sold the Upper Rhine to Burgundy?.
upper rhine sold burgundy.	When was the Upper Rhine sold to Burgundy?.
francia discover rhine entered entered border.	When did Francia discover that the Rhine entered had entered their borders?.
middle western francia formed.	When was Middle and Western Francia formed?.
holland empire formed.	When was the Holland empire formed?.
archduke sigismund austria die.	When did the Archduke Sigismund of Austria die?.
name war archduke sigismund austria started.	What was the name of the war that the Archduke Sigismund of Austria started?.
name time upper rhine form border france germany.	What was the name of the time the Upper Rhine form a border between France and Germany?.
long term goal french foreign policy along rhine.	What was a long term goal of French foreign policy along the Rhine?.
established confederation rhine.	Who established the Confederation of the Rhine?.
confederation rhine.	When was the confederation of the Rhine?.
rhine crisis.	When was the Rhine crisis?.
name peaceful era france germany.	What was the name of the peaceful era between France and Germany?.
border french complete middle age.	What borders did the French complete during the Middle Ages?.
peace westphalia established.	When was the Peace of Westphalia established?.
peace westphalia last.	When did the Peace of Westphalia last until?.
napoleon die.	When did Napoleon die?.
rhineland subject treaty versailles.	When was Rhineland subject to the Treaty of Versailles?.
would occupation ally leave rhineland.	When would the occupation of allies leave Rhineland?.
1935, would forbidden enter rhineland.	After 1935, who would be forbidden to enter Rhineland?.
believe treaty versailles assisted.	What do some believe the Treaty of Versailles assisted in?.
german army reoccupy rhineland.	When did the German army reoccupy Rhineland?.
treaty versailles written.	When was the Treaty of Versailles written?.
germany army enter rhineland.	When did the Germany army enter Rhineland?.
year adolf hitler's rise power.	What year did Adolf Hitler's rise to power?.
german army re-occupy britain france.	When did the the German army re-occupy Britain and France?.
rhine bridge.	Where is the Rhine Bridge?.
rhine considered invader wwii.	What was the Rhine considered to invaders in WWII?.
operation market garden.	When was Operation Market Garden?.
bridge german fail demolish.	What bridge did the Germans fail to demolish?.
warsaw pact war plan.	What was the Warsaw Pact war plan?.
war western ally cross rhine bridge arnhem.	During what war did the Western Allies cross the Rhine bridge at Arnhem?.
operation market garden september end.	When did the Operation Market Garden of September end?.
cold war begin.	When did the Cold War begin?.
long cold war last.	How long did the Cold War last?.
many day u.s. force participate cold war.	How many days did the U.S. forces participate in the Cold War?.
accepted length rhine prior 1932.	What was the accepted length of the Rhine prior to 1932?.
stated change length rhine.	Who stated a change of the length of the Rhine?.
1932 rhine measurement changed.	in 1932 what was the Rhine measurement changed to?.
rhine measurement changed.	Why was the Rhine measurement changed? .
rhine measurement corrected back original.	When was the Rhine measurement corrected back to the original?.
year german encyclopedia knaurs lexikon written.	What year was the German encyclopedia Knaurs Lexikon written?.
year typographical error first corrected.	What year was the typographical error first corrected?.
year dutch rijkswaterstaat found.	What year was the Dutch Rijkswaterstaat found?.
authoritative brockhaus enzyklopädie written.	When was the authoritative Brockhaus Enzyklopädie written?.
wide rhine.	How wide is the Rhine?.
current parliament scotland convened.	When was the current parliament of Scotland convened?.
act set parliament's power devolved legislature.	What act set out the Parliament's powers as a devolved legislature?.
legislative competence parliament specie area.	The legislative competence of the Parliament species what areas?.
body certain power explicitly specified reserved.	To what body are certain powers explicitly specified as being reserved for?.
scottish parliament may legislate plea long power already reserved.	The Scottish Parliament may legislate as it pleases as long as the powers aren't already reserved by where?.
act convened old parliament scotland.	What act convened the old parliament of Scotland?.
old parliament scotland convened.	When was the old parliament of Scotland convened?.
parliament power legislate area.	What parliament has no power to legislate in any areas?.
parliament ability amend term reference scottish parliament.	Which parliament has no ability to amend the terms of reference of the Scottish Parliament?.
meeting took place 12 march 1999.	The meeting of the what took place on 12 March 1999?.
remained important issue scottish national identity many year.	What remained an important issue in Scottish national identity for many years?.
many hundred year scotland directly governed parliament great britain.	How many hundred of years was Scotland directly governed by the parliament of Great Britain?.
initial suggestion devolved parliament 1914 shelved.	Why were the initial suggestions for a devolved parliament before 1914 shelved?.
sharp rise nationalism scotland.	When was there a sharp rise in nationalism in Scotland?.
kllbrandon's report 1973 recommend establishing.	What did Kllbrandon's report in 1973 recommend establishing?.
considered important element scottish national identity.	What was not considered an important element in Scottish national identity?.
second world war caused shelved.	The Second World War caused what to be shelved?.
decline scottish nationalism 1960s fueled.	A decline in Scottish nationalism during the 1960s fueled what?.
objective kilbrandon commission.	The only objective of the Kilbrandon Commission was what?.
harold wilson published report year.	Harold Wilson published a report in what year?.
sea oil discovered.	Which sea was oil discovered in?.
campaigh scottish national party (snp) run.	What campaigh did the Scottish National Party (SNP) run?.
snp publicly opine oil revenue.	What did the SNP publicly opine about the oil revenues?.
prime minister wilson commit form devolved legislature.	When did Prime Minister Wilson commit to some form of devolved legislature?.
final legislative proposal scottish assembly passed.	When was the final legislative proposals for a Scottish Assembly passed?.
discovery gas north sea resulted.	Discovery of gas in the North Sea resulted in what?.
president wilson committed government 1974.	President Wilson committed his government to what in 1974?.
final proposal scottish assembly passed united state parliament year.	Final proposals for a Scottish Assembly were passed by the United States Parliament in what year?.
"it's scotland's oil" campaign resulted discovery south sea.	The "It's Scotland's oil" campaign resulted from the discovery of what in the South Sea?.
elected assembly set up, term scotland act 1978.	Where was an elected assembly to be set up, under the terms of the Scotland Act of 1978?.
many scottish electorate would need referendum.	How many of the Scottish electorate would need to for it on the referendum?.
trying establish devolved scottish assembly go 1979.	How did trying to establish a devolved Scottish Assembly go in 1979?.
percentage vote scottish assembly favor.	What percentage of the vote for a Scottish Assembly in favor of it?.
percentage scotland's voting population failed actually vote.	What percentage of Scotland's voting population failed to actually vote?.
51.6% favor.	51.6% was not in favor of what?.
scotland act 1988, would set edinburgh.	Under the Scotland Act of 1988, what would be set up in Edinburgh?.
referendum establish devolved scottish assembly succeeded year.	The referendum to establish a devolved Scottish Assembly succeeded in what year?.
percentage non-eligible voting population vote.	What percentage of the non-eligible voting population did not vote?.
range 1980 1990, demand grow.	In the range between 1980 and 1990, what did demand for grow?.
whose control uk's government helped fuel desire scottish parliament.	Whose control of the UK's government helped fuel a desire for a Scottish Parliament?.
scottish constitutional convention held.	When was the Scottish Constitutional Convention held?.
provided much basis structure parliament 1995.	What provided much of the basis for the structure of the Parliament in 1995?.
demand scottish parliament declined year.	Demand for a Scottish Parliament declined in what year?.
1989 scottish constitutional convention provided little basis structure.	The 1989 Scottish Constitutional Convention provided very little basis for the structure of what?.
campaign constitutional convention initiated type group.	The Campaign for Constitutional Convention was initiated as what type of group?.
published blueprint devotion 1995.	Who published its blueprint for devotion in 1995?.
official home scottish parliament since 2004.	Where has the official home of the Scottish Parliament been since 2004?.
designed scottish parliament building.	Who designed the Scottish Parliament building?.
nationality architect enric miralles.	What nationality is the architect Enric Miralles?.
shape building parliament complex.	What shape are some of the buildings in the Parliament complex?.
opened new parliament building october 9, 2004.	Who opened the new Parliament building on October 9, 2004?.
since 1904, home scottish parliament.	Since 1904, the home of Scottish Parliament has been where?.
complex feature flower-shaped building.	What complex features flower-shaped buildings?.
turned boat skylight located lobby.	The down turned boat skylights are located in what lobby?.
queen elizabeth opened new scottish parliament building date.	Queen Elizabeth I opened the new Scottish Parliament Building on what date?.
french architect enric miralles helped design building.	French architect Enric Miralles helped design what building?.
parliament's temporary home whilst permanent building built.	Where was Parliament's temporary home whilst the permanent building was being built?.
interview held parliament temporary building.	Where were interviews held while the parliament was in its temporary building?.
building vacated twice allow.	What was the building vacated twice to allow for?.
parliament temporarily relocated may 2000.	Where was Parliament temporarily relocated to in May of 2000?.
may 2002, would go address parliament.	In May 2002, where would you go to address the Parliament?.
parliament's temporary home royal mill area.	Parliament's temporary home was on the Royal Mills in what area?.
assembly center used take kind photograph.	The Assembly Center was used to take what kind of photographs?.
building vacated three time allow meeting church's general assembly.	Which building was vacated three times to allow for the meeting of the Church's General Assembly?.
may 2010, parliament relocated.	In May 2010, Parliament was relocated where?.
parliament rent additional building.	Who did the Parliament rent additional buildings from?.
former administrative building used msp's office.	What  former administrative building was used for the MSP's offices?.
happened building george iv bridge parliament done.	What happened to the building on George IV Bridge when the Parliament was done with it?.
former midlothian county building face.	What do the former Midlothian County Buildings face?.
hall used parliament's principle committee room.	Which hall was used as Parliament's principle committee room?.
former administrative building lothian regional council george v bridge used.	The former administrative building of the Lothian Regional Council on George V Bridge was used for what?.
building demolished 2014.	What building was demolished in 2014?.
originally built headquarters pre-1875 midlothian county council.	What was originally built as headquarters of the pre-1875 Midlothian County Council?.
moved hollywood 2004.	Who moved to Hollywood in 2004?.
elected serve presiding officer beginning parliamentary session.	Who is elected to serve as the Presiding Officer at the beginning of each parliamentary session?.
currently speaker scottish parliament.	Who is currently speaker of the Scottish Parliament?.
type ballot used elect presiding officer deputy parliament.	What type of ballot is used to elect the Presiding Officer and deputies of the Parliament?.
many msps.	How many MSPs are there?.
responsible operating electronic voting equipment chamber clock.	Who is responsible for operating the electronic voting equipment and chamber clocks?.
parliament elect two msps serve officer.	Parliament elects two MSPs to serve as what officers?.
elected using open ballot.	Who are elected using an open ballot?.
type clerk sits behind presiding officer.	What type of clerk sits behind the Presiding Officer?.
former speaker parliament.	The former speaker of Parliament is whom?.
two former deputy parliament.	The two former deputies of Parliament are whom?.
responsible ensuring parliament work smoothly.	Who is responsible for ensuring the Parliament works smoothly?.
set work agenda allocates time chamber.	Who sets the work agenda and allocates time in the chamber?.
many seat must political party represented parliamentary bureau.	How many seats must a political party have to be represented on the Parliamentary Bureau?.
represents scottish parliament home abroad official capacity.	Who represents the Scottish Parliament at home and abroad in an official capacity?.
group set time agenda.	Which group sets the time agenda?.
responsible ensuring parliament run smoothly.	Who is not responsible for ensuring Parliament runs smoothly?.
disagrees timetable business chamber.	Who disagrees with the timetable of business in the chamber?.
officer represents scottish police force home abroad.	Which officer represents the Scottish Police Force at home and abroad?.
seating arrangement debating chamber.	What is the seating arrangement of the debating chamber?.
seating debating chamber arranged.	Why is the seating of the debating chamber arranged as it is?.
many seat debating chamber.	How many seats are in the debating chamber?.
many member seat scottish parliament member scottish government.	How many members in the seats of the Scottish Parliament are members of the Scottish Government?.
non-elected member scottish government.	What can the non-elected members from the Scottish Government not do?.
parliament seating arranged straight line.	Which parliament has seating arranged in a straight line?.
231 seat chamber.	There re 231 seats in which chamber?.
solicitor official scotland seat chamber.	The Solicitor Official of Scotland has a seat in which chamber?.
second minister, scottish cabinet minister sit front row debating chamber.	The Second Minister, Scottish cabinet ministers and whom sit in the front row in the debating chamber?.
smallest party parliament sits middle.	The smallest party in Parliament sits in the middle of what?.
parliamentary mace made.	What is the parliamentary mace made of?.
gold parliamentary mace come.	Where does the gold in the parliamentary mace come from?.
word inscribed mace parliament.	What words are inscribed on the mace of parliament?.
presented mac scottish parliament initially opened.	Who presented the mac to the Scottish Parliament when it was initially opened?.
mace displayed.	What is the mace displayed in?.
inlaid gold panned french river.	What is inlaid with gold panned from French rivers?.
word shall scottish parliament inscribed around foot.	The words There shall be a Scottish Parliament is inscribed around the foot of the what?.
presented scottish parliament queen 1989.	What was presented to the Scottish Parliament by the Queen in 1989?.
symbolizes partial meeting parliament taking place.	What symbolizes that a partial meeting of Parliament is taking place?.
word wisdom, compassion, justice, integration inscribed.	The words Wisdom, Compassion, Justice, and Integration are inscribed on what?.
month first year parliament take two week vacation.	Which month is the first in the year Parliament takes a two week vacation?.
plenary meeting take place.	Where do plenary meetings take place?.
debate meeting open.	Who are debates and meetings open to?.
much cost gain entry parliament meeting.	How much does it cost to gain entry to a parliament meeting?.
contains nearly verbatim parliamentary debate.	What contains a nearly verbatim of parliamentary debates?.
typically sits tuesdays, wednesdays, friday.	What typically sits Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?.
parliament typically sits february late.	Parliament typically sits from February to late what?.
plenary meeting debating chamber usually take place tuesday afternoon 1pm.	Plenary meetings in the debating chamber usually take place on Tuesday afternoons from 1pm to what?.
meeting closed public.	What meetings are closed to the public?.
debate closed public.	What debates are closed to the public?.
day week time reflection take place.	What day of the week does the Time for Reflection take place?.
long might speaker address member time reflection.	How long might a speaker address the members during the Time of Reflection?.
speaker drawn across scotland, represent balance.	Because speakers are drawn from across Scotland, what do the represent the balance of?.
decides get address member parliament share thought issue faith.	Who decides who gets to address the members of Parliament to share their thoughts on issues of faith?.
faith group ask presiding officer.	What can faith groups ask the Presiding Officer to do for them?.
second item business wednesday usually.	The second item of business on Wednesdays is usually what?.
name period member address speaker four minute.	What is the name for the period when members address speakers for up to four minutes?.
first item business house lord usually.	The first item of business in the House of Lords is usually what?.
invitation address house common determined.	Invitations to address the House of Commons are determined by whom?.
decides get speak chamber debate.	Who decides who gets to speak in the chamber debates?.
also decided presiding officer.	What is also decided by the Presiding Officer?.
presiding officer try achieve balance speaker.	What does the Presiding Officer try to achieve a balance of between speakers?.
member typically open debate.	What members typically open debates?.
language english scottish parliament meeting.	What language other than English has the Scottish Parliament had meetings in?.
presiding officer try achieve balance similar viewpoint.	The Presiding Officer tries the achieve a balance between similar viewpoints and whom?.
typically close debate.	Who typically closes debates?.
closing speaker given 5 many minute.	Closing speakers are given between 5 and how many minutes?.
succeeding speaker usually allotted.	Succeeding speakers are usually allotted more what?.
presiding officer increase speaking time.	The Presiding Officer can increase speaking time if what?.
time msps normally decide motion amendment day.	What time do the MSPs normally decide on the motions and amendments from that day?.
heralded sounding division bell.	What is heralded by the sounding of the division bell?.
msps chamber division bell ring return.	What do MSPs who are not in the chamber when the division bell rings return to do?.
member vote division.	How do members vote when there is a division?.
long take know outcome division.	How long does it take to know the outcome of a division?.
5 am, sitting day, msps decide.	At 5 am, each sitting day, the MSPs decide on what?.
heralded sounding deciding bell.	What is heralded by the sounding of the deciding bell?.
presiding officer put motion question.	When does the Presiding Officer put motions on the questions?.
dissent, presiding officer say.	If there is no dissent, the Presiding Officer says what?.
outcome known hour.	The outcome of what is known in hours?.
often predicted beforehand.	What can often be predicted beforehand?.
normally instructs member vote.	Who normally instructs members how to vote?.
task ensuring party member vote according party line.	Who has the task of ensuring party members vote according to the party line?.
happens member vote party line.	What happens if a member doesn't vote the party line?.
type issue member typically allowed vote please.	What type of issues are members typically allowed to vote as they please?.
mostly predicted beforehand.	What can not be mostly predicted beforehand?.
task ensuring party member vote according party line.	Who has the task of ensuring that party members don't vote according to party line?.
independence parliament tends high.	The independence of which Parliament tends to be high?.
type rebellion common scottish parliament.	Which type of rebellions are common in Scottish Parliament?.
member debate held.	When is the Members Debate held?.
long member debate last.	How long does the Members Debate last?.
debate proposed motion msp conducted.	Why are debates on proposed motions by an MSP conducted?.
contributes member business addition proposer.	Who contributes to Members Business in addition to the proposer?.
minister catalyst member business speaking everyone else.	What does the minister who was the catalyst of the Members Business do by speaking after everyone else?.
"members debate" usually held immediately.	A "Members Debate" is usually held immediately before what?.
member normally contribute.	Other member do not normally contribute to what?.
debate last 55 minute.	What debate lasts for 55 minutes?.
debate debate motion proposed msp scottish minister.	What debate is a debate on a motion proposed by an MSP who is not a Scottish minister?.
much work scottish parliament done.	Where is much of the work of the Scottish Parliament done?.
committee scottish parliament compared system.	What are committees in the Scottish Parliament compared to other systems?.
one avenue compensated committee serve large role.	What is one avenue being compensated for by having committees serve such a large role?.
taking evidence witness one committees'.	Taking evidence from witnesses is one of committees' what?.
might committee meet outside parliament.	Where might committees meet outside of Parliament?.
little work done scottish parliament done.	Very little of the work done by Scottish Parliament is done where?.
committee scottish parliament weaker system.	The committees in Scottish Parliament are weaker then in other systems why?.
group primary role scrutinizing witness.	Which group has a primary role scrutinizing witnesses?.
group meet location scotland.	Which group can not meet at other locations in Scotland?.
committee comprised.	Who are committees comprised of?.
membership committee reflect.	What do the membership of the committees reflect?.
different committee set different way.	Different committees have what set out in different ways?.
type committee set sp's standing order.	What type of committee is set down under the SP's standing orders?.
session scottish parliament.	What session is the Scottish Parliament in?.
compromise large number msps.	What compromises a large number of MSPs?.
group's membership reflect balance party parliament.	What group's membership does not reflect the balance of parties in Parliament?.
optional committee committee set.	Optional Committees are committees which are set down under what?.
mandatory committee exists fifth session.	Mandatory Committees exists in the fifth session of what?.
subject committee established.	When are subject committees established?.
many ministry scottish government committee typically correspond.	How many ministries of the Scottish government does a committee typically correspond to?.
economy, energy tourism one.	Economy, Energy and Tourism is one of the what?.
scottish parliament currently fourth.	What is the Scottish Parliament currently in the fourth of?.
established end parliamentary session.	What are established at the end of each parliamentary session?.
committee reflect balance party across parliament.	Which committees do not reflect the balance of parties across Parliament?.
type committee exist fifth session.	What type of committees exist in the fifth Session?.
committee corresponds one department spanish government.	What committee corresponds with one or more departments in the Spanish Government?.
set scrutinize private bill submitted party outsider.	What is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted by party outsiders?.
topic private bill typically.	What topic do private bills typically have?.
decides land property allowed used.	Who decides how land or property is allowed to be used?.
kind committee considered legislation development edinburgh tram network.	What kind of committee considered legislation on the development of the Edinburgh Tram Network?.
group set scrutinize public bill submitted scottish parliament.	What group is set up to scrutinize public bills submitted to the Scottish Parliament?.
public bill normally refer large-scale.	Public bills normally refer to large-scale what?.
public bill committee set.	Public Bill Committees have been set up to do what?.
group set scrutinize private bill submitted spanish parliament.	What group is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted to the Spanish Parliament?.
act set forth function scottish parliament.	What act sets forth the functions of the Scottish Parliament?.
gave royal assent scotland act 1998.	Who gave her royal assent to the Scotland Act of 1998?.
scotland act 2012 extend.	What does the Scotland Act of 2012 extend?.
body constitutes supreme legislature scotland.	What body constitutes the supreme legislature of Scotland?.
role holding scottish government account.	Who has the role of holding the Scottish Government to account?.
scotland act 2002 extends devolved.	The Scotland Act 2002 extends the devolved what?.
passed scotland act 1988.	Who passed the Scotland Act of 1988?.
granted royal assent scotland act 1988.	Who granted royal assent to the Scotland Act of 1988?.
scotland act enabled spanish parliament pas.	The Scotland Act enabled the Spanish Parliament to pass what?.
power pas law.	Who has no power to pass laws?.
reserved matter stated scotland act.	Where are reserved matters stated in the Scotland Act?.
matter specifically reserved, devolved.	If a matter is not specifically reserved, who is it devolved to?.
police fire service fall purview scottish parliament.	Why do police and fire services fall under the purview of the Scottish Parliament?.
much sp alter income tax scotland.	How much can the SP alter income tax in Scotland?.
setting speed limit one devolution conferred act.	Setting speed limits was one of the further devolutions which was conferred by what act?.
includes subject stated schedule 6 scotland act.	What includes all subjects which are not stated in Schedule 6 to the Scotland Act?.
ability alter income tax scotland.	Who does not have the ability to alter income tax in Scotland?.
ability alter income tax scotland 33 penny.	Who has the ability to alter income tax in Scotland by up to 33 pence?.
2002 act granted fiscal devolution including.	The 2002 Act granted further fiscal devolution including what?.
name matter outside legislative ability scottish parliament.	What is the name of matters outside the legislative ability of the Scottish Parliament?.
issue dealt westminster one able deal.	Issues dealt with at Westminster are not ones who is able to deal with?.
issue like abortion drug policy legislated.	Where are issues like abortion and drug policy legislated on?.
aspect transport safety subject dealt.	Most aspects of transport safety is a subject dealt with by whom?.
unreserved matter subject.	Unreserved matters are subjects who are where?.
able legislate issue reserved westminster.	Who is able to legislate on issues that are reserved to Westminster?.
function usually lie u government minister.	What functions usually lie with US Government ministers?.
subject inside legislative competence scotland parliament called.	Subjects that are inside the legislative competence of the Scotland Parliament are called what?.
may presented parliament various way.	What may be presented to Parliament in various ways?.
may introduce new law amendment law already book bill.	Who may introduce new laws or amendments to laws already on the books as a bill?.
msp may introduce bill.	An MSP may introduce a bill as what?.
may also submit private bill parliament.	Who may also submit private bills to Parliament?.
bill pas parliament.	How do bills pass through Parliament?.
president governing party introduce law.	Presidents in the governing party introduce what laws?.
committee president present.	A committee of the President can present what?.
member parliament introduce bill public member.	A member of what parliament can introduce a bill as a public member?.
introduce bill public member.	Who can introduce a bill as a public member?.
stage 1 life bill.	What is stage 1 in the life of a bill?.
presented parliament addition bill.	What are presented to parliament in addition to the bill itself?.
statement po member charge bill also indicate.	What do statements from the PO and member in charge of the bill also indicate?.
bill typically gestated stage 1.	Where are bills typically gestated in Stage 1?.
parliament agrees vote general principle bill, proceed.	If Parliament agrees in a vote to the general principle of a bill, what does it then proceed to?.
stage 2 bill charge bill.	Stage 2 of the bill is where who is in charge of the bill?.
none parliament agrees general principal bill, proceeds stage.	If none of Parliament agrees to the general principals of the bill, it proceeds to what Stage?.
stage usually take place irrelevant committee.	What stage usually takes place in the irrelevant committees?.
submitted part parliament full debate.	What is submitted to only part of Parliament for a full debate?.
final stage bill scottish parliament.	What is the final stage of a bill in the Scottish Parliament?.
many part consideration bill stage 3.	How many parts does the consideration of a bill in Stage 3 have?.
vote bill take place stage 3.	What vote on a bill takes place in Stage 3?.
type amendment might member opposed bill put table.	What type of amendments might members opposed to a bill put on the table?.
member proceed vote whether agree principle final bill.	When do members proceed to vote on whether they agree to the principles of the final bill?.
stage 4 final stage.	Stage 4 is the final stage of what?.
considered meeting part parliament.	What is considered at a meeting of part of Parliament?.
member vote beginning form bill.	When do members vote of the beginning form of the bill?.
"wrecking amendments" designed encourage.	"Wrecking amendments" are designed to encourage further what?.
presiding officer submit final bill.	Who does the Presiding Officer submit the final bill to?.
final bill passed monarch.	Why is the final bill passed to the Monarch?.
minimum amount time bill go law.	What is the minimum amount of time before a bill can go into law?.
bill referred ruling whether within power parliament.	Who is a bill referred to for a ruling on whether it's within the powers of the Parliament?.
template bill passed scottish parliament include.	What does the template for bills passed by the Scottish Parliament include?.
bill passed, becomes act.	Before the bill has been passed, it becomes an Act of what?.
bill submitted passed.	The bill is submitted to whom before it is passed?.
act government begin conventional enacting formula.	The acts of what government begin with a conventional enacting formula?.
act spanish parliament begin phrase.	Acts of Spanish Parliament begin with what phrase?.
u government refer bill.	The US Government can refer the bill to whom?.
party form scottish parliament.	What party forms the Scottish Parliament?.
elected beginning term.	Who is elected at the beginning of each term?.
eligible toss name hat first minister.	Who is eligible to toss their name in the hat to be First Minister?.
scotland's chief law officer, whence minister drawn amongst.	Other than Scotland's Chief Law Officer, from whence are most ministers drawn from amongst?.
make formal appointment dismissal decision.	Who makes formal appointment or dismissal decisions?.
party hold minority seat parliament form.	The parties that hold the minority of seats in Parliament form what?.
parliament elect second minister.	Parliament elects a second minister from whom?.
minister drawn amongst.	Very few ministers are drawn from amongst whom?.
second minister chooses.	The Second Minister chooses whom?.
day week general election held.	What day of the week are general elections held?.
month, every four years, ordinary general election held.	What month, every four years, are the ordinary general elections held on?.
may change date month, proposal po.	Who may change the date by up to a month, on the proposal of the PO?.
many day parliament nominate first minister general election.	How many days does the Parliament have to nominate a First Minister after a General Election?.
extraordinary election held within le six month date ordinary election, ordinary election.	If an extraordinary election is held within less than six months before the date of an ordinary election, what does it do to the ordinary election?.
scotland act 1988, ordinary general election held.	Under the Scotland Act 1988, ordinary general elections are held when?.
may varied two month.	What may be varied by up to two months?.
proposes date poll varied.	Who proposes the date of the poll not be varied?.
propose date poll varied three month.	Who can propose the date of the poll be varied by up to three months?.
enables scottish parliament scrutinize government.	What enables the Scottish Parliament to scrutinize the government?.
question statement first minister member cabinet make.	Who can question statements the First Minister or members of the cabinet make?.
first minister deliver beginning parliamentary year.	What does the First Minister deliver at the beginning of each parliamentary year?.
leader opposition party msps question first minister.	What do the leaders of the opposition parties and other MSPs question the First Minister about?.
scottish parliament scrutinize people.	How does the Scottish Parliament scrutinize the people?.
second minister deliver.	The Second Minister can deliver what?.
statement delivered, questioned.	Before the statement is delivered, who is questioned?.
second minister deliver statement.	Whom can the Second Minister deliver statements to?.
set aside question period debating chamber.	What is set aside for question periods in the debating chamber?.
day general question time take place.	On what day does a General Question Time take place?.
may member direct question towards general question time.	Who may members direct questions towards during General Question Time?.
may member question first minister directly first minister's question time.	What may members question the First Minister about directly during First Minister's Question Time?.
many general question available opposition leader.	How many general questions are available to opposition leaders?.
time member ask question particular member scottiish government.	What is the time when members can ask questions to only particular members of Scottiish Government?.
60-minute long "question time" take place time.	A 60-minute long "Question Time" takes place at what time?.
second minister's question time take place time thursday.	The Second Minister's Question Time takes place between what times on Thursdays?.
asks supplementary question general question first minister.	Who asks supplementary questions and then a general question of the First Minister?.
number constituency msps.	What is the number of Constituency MSPs?.
many member voter choose represent constituency.	How many members can voters choose to represent the constituency? .
reduction number scottish mp.	When was there a reduction in the number of Scottish MPs?.
current number elector currently scottish parliament constituency.	What is the current number of electors currently in a Scottish Parliament constituency? .
island archipelago comprise smaller number elector.	Why do the island archipelagos comprise a smaller number of electors?.
many msps 139 known "constituency msps".	How many MSPs out of 139 are known as "Constituency MSPs"?.
83 "constituency msps" chosen.	How are the 83 "Constituency MSPs" chosen?.
island compise larger number elector.	Which islands compise a larger number of electors?.
constituency msp forced parliament, trigger.	If a Constituency MSP is forced from Parliament, what does it trigger?.
total number seat allocated party.	How are the total numbers of seats allocated to parties?.
method used tallying vote second vote ballot.	What method is used for tallying votes in the second vote of the ballot?.
party awarded seat one highest.	The party awarded a seat is the one with the highest what?.
set seat added allocated.	What set is a seat added to after being allocated?.
process allocating seat repeated available seat determined.	How is the process of allocating seats repeated until all available seats have been determined?.
party lowest quotient awarded.	The party with the lowest quotient is awarded what?.
subtracted constituency seat.	What is subtracted to its constituency seats?.
method used tallying vote first vote ballot.	What method is used in tallying votes in the first vote of the ballot?.
first vote ballot us method tally vote.	The first vote of the ballot uses what method to tally the votes?.
msp share house common.	What does being an MSP share with the House of Commons?.
british nationality act passed.	When was the British Nationality Act passed?.
old person apply msp.	How old most a person be to apply to be an MSP?.
member organization disqualified sitting sp elected msps.	Members of which organizations are disqualified from sitting in the SP as elected MSPs?.
act set term judging boundary sanity individual wishing sit sp must adhere.	What act sets the term for judging the boundaries of sanity to which individuals wishing to sit on the SP must adhere?.
job requires qualification.	What job requires no qualifications?.
house lord introduced qualification position.	The House of Lords introduced qualifications for which position?.
job requires member 18.	Which job requires that member be under 18?.
job require member citizen uk.	Which job does not require that the member be a citizen of the UK?.
election produced snp majority government, first occurrence.	When the election produced an SNP majority government, what was it the first occurrence of?.
snp obtain 16 seat.	Who did the SNP obtain 16 seats from?.
much labour lead lain gray retain east lothian.	By how much did Labour lead Lain Gray retain East Lothian?.
many seat snp take liberal democrat.	How many seats did the SNP take from the Liberal Democrats?.
result snp majority allow referendum held.	What did the result of the SNP majority allow a referendum be held on?.
snp gave many seat labour.	The SNP gave how many seats to Labour?.
many whose key figure returned parliament.	Many of whose key figures returned to parliament?.
labour leader iain gray gave east lothian many vote.	Labour leader Iain Gray gave up East Lothian by how many votes?.
snp gave eight seat liberal.	The SNP gave eight seats to the Liberal who?.
loss edinburgh pentlands really disappointed.	The loss of Edinburgh Pentlands really disappointed whom the most?.
seat former party leader david mcletchie.	What was the seat of former party leader David McLetchie?.
net loss conservative suffer.	What net loss did the Conservatives suffer?.
announced would step leader conservative.	Who announced she would step down as leader of the Conservatives? .
congratulated snp vowing campaign referendum.	Who congratulated the SNP while vowing to campaign against their referendum?.
liberals, main disappointment.	For the Liberals, the main disappointment was what?.
current party leader, david mcletchie lost seat.	Current party leader, David McLetchie lost what seat?.
elected lothian global list.	Who was elected on the Lothian global list?.
announced would step party leader.	Who announced that she would not step down as party leader?.
congratulated snp loss.	Who congratulated the SNP on their loss?.
consequence establishing scottish parliament applies scottish mp sitting uk house common.	What consequence of establishing the Scottish Parliament applies to Scottish MPs sitting in the UK House of Commons?.
mp unable vote upon.	What are MPs unable to vote upon?.
phenomenon led criticism.	What phenomenon has led to criticism?.
party victory 2015 uk election.	What party had a victory in the 2015 UK election?.
mp representing english constituency veto law affecting country.	MPs representing English constituencies can only veto laws affecting which country? .
west lutheran question known.	The West Lutheran question is known as what?.
following liberal victory 2015, standing order changed.	Following the Liberal victory in 2015, standing orders were changed to do what?.
victorious 2005 uk election.	Who was victorious in the 2005 UK election?.
question led criticism.	What question has not led to criticism?.
islamic revival movement.	What is an Islamic revival movement?.
aspect life islamism seek integrate.	What aspects of life does Islamism seek to integrate itself into?.
goal islamism come society government.	What goal does Islamism have when it comes to society and government?.
two different islamist movement described oscillating.	What have the two different Islamist movements been described as oscillating between?.
one strategy islamization seize power method.	One strategy of Islamization is to seize power by what methods?.
non-islamic revival movement.	What is a non-Islamic revival movement?.
aspect life islamism seek integrate.	 What aspects of life does Islamism not seek to integrate itself into?.
goal islamism come society government.	 What goal does Islamism not have when it comes to society and government?.
one strategy islamization seize power method.	 One strategy of Islamization is to not seize power by what methods?.
process moderate reformist islamist work within boundary.	What process do moderate and reformist Islamists work within the boundaries of?.
hamas originate.	Where does Hamas originate?.
goal islamist group like hezbollah hamas.	What is the goal of Islamist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas?.
radical islamist organization reject entirely.	What do radical Islamist organizations reject entirely?.
basis radical islamist organization conduct attack.	On what basis do the radical Islamist organizations conduct their attacks?.
process moderate reformist islamist work within boundary.	What process do moderate and reformist Islamists not work within the boundaries of?.
pamas originate.	 Where does Pamas originate?.
goal non-islamist group like hezbollah hamas.	 What is the goal of non-Islamist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas?.
radical islamist organization accept entirely.	 What do radical Islamist organizations accept entirely?.
basis radical non-islamist organization conduct attack.	On what basis do the radical non-Islamist organizations conduct their attacks?.
exists fundamentalist islamism reformist islamism.	What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and reformist Islamism?.
olivier roy state underwent remarkable shift second half 20th century.	What did Olivier Roy state underwent a remarkable shift in the second half of the 20th century?.
salafi movement put emphasis.	What did the Salafi movement put emphasis on?.
islamism increasingly interdependent following arab spring.	What has Islamism been increasingly interdependent with following the Arab Spring?.
islamist need democratic election.	Why do Islamists need democratic elections?.
exists fundamentalist islamism non-reformist islamism.	What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and non-reformist Islamism?.
olivier roy state underwent remarkable shift second half 21st century.	What did Olivier Roy state underwent a remarkable shift in the second half of the 21st century?.
non-salafi movement put emphasis.	 What did the non-Salafi movement put emphasis on?.
islamism increasingly interdependent following non-arab spring.	What has Islamism been increasingly interdependent with following the non-Arab Spring?.
islamist need democratic election.	 Why don't Islamists need democratic elections?.
type role islamism seek make somewhat controversial concept.	What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it a somewhat controversial concept?.
supporter islamism believe view reflect.	What do supporters of Islamism believe their views reflect?.
idea islam apolitical able embraced.	The idea that Islam can be apolitical isn't able to be embraced by whom?.
inability separate islam islamism lead many west support.	What does the inability to separate Islam from Islamism lead many in the West to support?.
progressive moderate islam seek separate.	What do progressive moderates of Islam seek to separate?.
type role islamism seek make controversial concept.	What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it not a controversial concept?.
supporter islamism believe view reflect.	 What don't supporters of Islamism believe their views reflect?.
idea islam can't apolitical able embraced.	The idea that Islam can't be apolitical isn't able to be embraced by whom?.
inability separate islam islamism lead many eest support.	What does the inability to separate Islam from Islamism lead many in the Eest to support?.
progressive moderate islam seek separate.	 What don't progressive moderates of Islam seek to separate?.
term islamist think applied.	What term do Islamists think should be applied to them?.
writer international crisis group think concept political islam creation.	What does a writer for the International Crisis Group think the concept of political Islam is a creation of?.
apolitical islam.	What was apolitical Islam?.
heyday secular arab nationalism.	When was the heyday of secular Arab nationalism?.
what, rather islamism, requires explanation.	What, rather than Islamism, requires explanation?.
term islamist think applied.	What term don't Islamists think should be applied to them?.
writer international crisis group think concept political islam creation.	 What does a writer for the International Crisis Group think the concept of political Islam is not a creation of?.
apolitical islam.	 What wasn't apolitical Islam?.
heyday secular non-arab nationalism.	 When was the heyday of secular non-Arab nationalism?.
what, rather islamism, requires explanation.	What, rather than Islamism, requires no explanation?.
western government support fledgling islamist.	When did Western governments support fledgling Islamists?.
islamist group supported west later become seen.	What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the West later become to be seen as?.
western government considered islamist lesser two evil compared.	Western governments considered Islamists to be the lesser of two evils when compared to whom?.
u provide aid to, fight soviet union.	Who did the US provide aid to, to fight against the Soviet Union?.
non-afghan veteran returning home addition prestige.	What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home have in addition to their prestige?.
eastern government support fledgling islamist.	When did Eastern governments support fledgling Islamists?.
islamist group supported east later become seen.	What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the East later become to be seen as?.
western government considered islamist worse two evil compared.	Western governments considered Islamists to be the worse of two evils when compared to whom?.
u refuse aid to, fight soviet union.	 Who did the US refuse aid to, to fight against the Soviet Union?.
non-afghan veteran returning home addition prestige.	What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home not have in addition to their prestige?.
president egypt.	Who is the President of Egypt?.
relationship israel sadat.	What relationship with Israel is Sadat for?.
sadat seeking releasing islamist prison.	What was Sadat seeking by releasing Islamists from prison?.
called gentlemen's agreement sadat islamist break.	When did the so called gentlemen's agreement between Sadat and the Islamists break down?.
sadat rewarded islamist attempt bring egypt modern time civilization.	How was Sadat rewarded by the Islamists for his attempts to bring Egypt into modern times and civilization?.
president afghanistan.	Who is the President of Afghanistan?.
relationship israel sadat.	 What relationship with Israel is Sadat against?.
sadat seeking releasing islamist prison.	 What was Sadat not seeking by releasing Islamists from prison?.
called gentlemen's agreement sadat islamist break.	 When did the so called gentlemen's agreement between Sadat and the Islamists not break down?.
sadat rewarded islamist attempt keep egypt modern time civilization.	How was Sadat rewarded by the Islamists for his attempts to keep Egypt from being in modern times and civilization?.
type interpretation islam salafism promote.	What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism promote?.
salafism harshest form encourage follower view religion others.	What does Salafism in its harshest form encourage its followers to view the religion of others with?.
salafism posit democracy responsible type horrible event 20th century.	Salafism posits that democracy is responsible for what type of horrible events of the 20th century?.
conservative islam classifies muslim follow shia interpretation.	Conservative Islam classifies Muslims who follow Shia interpretation as what?.
interpretation islam is, many adherents, "gold standard" religion.	What interpretation of Islam is, for many of the adherents, the "gold standard" of their religion?.
type interpretation islam salafism discourage.	 What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism discourage?.
salafism harshest form discourage follower view religion others.	What does Salafism in its harshest form discourage its followers to view the religion of others with?.
salafism posit democracy responsible type horrible event 21st century.	Salafism posits that democracy is responsible for what type of horrible events of the 21st century?.
conservative islam classifies non-muslims follow shia interpretation.	Conservative Islam classifies non-Muslims who follow Shia interpretation as what?.
interpretation islam is, many adherents, "gold standard" religion.	What interpretation of Islam is, for many of the adherents, not the "gold standard" of their religion?.
type movement muslim brotherhood.	What type of movement is the Muslim Brotherhood?.
type assistance town student muslim brotherhood known.	What type of assistance to out of town students is the Muslim Brotherhood known for?.
muslim brotherhood facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremony.	Why has the Muslim Brotherhood facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremonies?.
muslim brotherhood's competence compare well type local government.	The Muslim Brotherhood's competence compares well against what type of local governments?.
incompetent government's commitment social justice limited.	What are incompetent government's commitment to social justice limited to?.
type movement non-muslim brotherhood.	 What type of movement is the non-Muslim Brotherhood?.
type assistance town student non-muslim brotherhood known.	What type of assistance to out of town students is the non-Muslim Brotherhood known for?.
muslim brotherhood facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremony.	Why has the Muslim Brotherhood not facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremonies?.
muslim brotherhood's competence compare type local government.	The Muslim Brotherhood's competence does not compare against what type of local governments?.
incompetent government's commitment social justice limited.	What are incompetent government's commitment to social justice not limited to?.
iqbal studying england germany.	What was Iqbal studying in England and Germany?.
organization iqbal join london.	What organization did Iqbal join in London?.
year iqbal return lahore.	What year did Iqbal return to Lahore?.
iqbal critic.	Who was Iqbal a critic of?.
book iqbal's seven english lecture published.	What book was Iqbal's seven English lectures published as?.
iqbal studying ireland.	 What was Iqbal studying in Ireland?.
organization iqbal join france.	 What organization did Iqbal join in France?.
year iqbal leave lahore.	 What year did Iqbal leave Lahore?.
iqbal supporter.	 Who was Iqbal a supporter of?.
book iqbal's eight english lecture published.	 What book was Iqbal's eight English lectures published as?.
iqbal fear would weaken spiritual foundation islam muslim society.	What did Iqbal fear would weaken the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society?.
iqbal worried india's mostly hindu population would muslim heritage culture.	Iqbal worried that India's mostly Hindu population would do what to Muslim heritage and culture?.
iqbal promoted idea greater islamic political unity, encourage ending.	When Iqbal promoted ideas of greater Islamic political unity, what did he encourage ending?.
iqbal elected president muslim league.	When was Iqbal elected president of the Muslim League?.
iqbal's allahabad address inspire.	What did Iqbal's Allahabad address inspire?.
iqbal fear would strengthen spiritual foundation islam muslim society.	What did Iqbal fear would strengthen the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society?.
iqbal worried india's mostly hindu population would muslim heritage culture.	 Iqbal worried that India's mostly Hindu population would not do what to Muslim heritage and culture?.
iqbal promoted idea greater islamic political unity, discourage ending.	 When Iqbal promoted ideas of greater Islamic political unity, what did he discourage ending?.
iqbal elected vice president muslim league.	 When was Iqbal elected vice president of the Muslim League?.
iqbal's allahabad address inspire.	 What did Iqbal's Allahabad address not inspire?.
important figure twentieth-century islamic revival india.	Who was an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India?.
maududi trained lawyer, chose professional instead.	Maududi was trained as a lawyer, but chose what professional for himself instead?.
maududi found jamaat-e-islami party.	When did Maududi found the Jamaat-e-Islami party?.
important early figure islamic revival india.	Who was an important early figure in the Islamic revival in India?.
though trained lawyer, profession maududi pursue instead.	Though trained as a lawyer, what profession did Maududi pursue instead?.
maududi exert impact.	Where did Maududi exert the most impact?.
maududi's book place islam.	Where did Maududi's books place Islam?.
important figure twentieth-century islamic revival india.	Who was not an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India?.
maududi trained lawyer, chose religion instead.	 Maududi was trained as a lawyer, but chose what religion for himself instead?.
maududi leave jamaat-e-islami party.	When did Maududi leave the Jamaat-e-Islami party?.
maududi exert least impact.	 Where did Maududi exert the least impact?.
maududi's book place islam.	 Where did Maududi's books not place Islam?.
maududi believe muslim society could islamic absence.	What did Maududi believe Muslim society could not be Islamic in the absence of?.
maududi believed islam needed established.	Maududi believed that Islam needed what to be established?.
english translation tawhid.	What is the English translation of tawhid?.
type revolution maududi advocate.	What type of revolution did Maududi advocate?.
method maududi want change heart mind individual.	By what method did Maududi want to change the hearts and minds of individuals?.
maududi believe muslim society could islamic absence.	What did Maududi believe Muslim society could be Islamic in the absence of?.
maududi believed islam needed established.	 Maududi believed that Islam needed what to not be established?.
french translation tawhid.	 What is the French translation of tawhid?.
type revolution maududi advocate.	 What type of revolution did Maududi not advocate?.
method maududi want change heart mind individual.	By what method did Maududi not want to change the hearts and minds of individuals?.
muslim brotherhood founded.	When was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?.
muslim brotherhood founded.	Where was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?.
founded muslim brotherhood.	Who founded the Muslim Brotherhood?.
motto muslim brotherhood specifies constitution.	The motto of the Muslim Brotherhood specifies what as being their constitution?.
influence al banna wish eliminate muslim world.	What influence did Al Banna wish to eliminate from the Muslim world?.
non-muslim brotherhood founded.	When was the non-Muslim Brotherhood founded?.
non-muslim brotherhood founded.	 Where was the non-Muslim Brotherhood founded?.
element brotherhood directed action government.	Some elements of the Brotherhood directed what action against the government?.
al-banna assassinated.	When was Al-Banna assassinated?.
al-banna's assassination retaliation prior assassination.	Who was Al-Banna's assassination a retaliation for the prior assassination of?.
brotherhood first banned egypt.	When was the Brotherhood first banned in Egypt?.
egyptian president jailed thousand member brotherhood.	What Egyptian president jailed thousands of members of the Brotherhood?.
element brotherhood direct action government.	Some elements of the Brotherhood did not direct what action against the government?.
al-banna born.	 When was Al-Banna born?.
al-banna's assassination retaliation prior assassination.	Who wasn't Al-Banna's assassination a retaliation for the prior assassination of?.
brotherhood first accepted egypt.	 When was the Brotherhood first accepted in Egypt?.
egyptian president jailed hundred member brotherhood.	What Egyptian president jailed hundreds of members of the Brotherhood?.
status brotherhood obtained islamic world.	What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the Islamic world?.
many years, brotherhood described.	For many years, what was the Brotherhood described as?.
brotherhood opposition group egypt able election.	The Brotherhood was the only opposition group in Egypt able to do what during elections?.
percentage seat political party identifying islamist win egyptian parliamentary election 2011-2012.	What percentage of seats did political parties identifying as Islamist win in the Egyptian parliamentary election of 2011-2012?.
first democratically elected president egypt.	Who was the first democratically elected president of Egypt?.
status brotherhood obtained non-islamic world.	 What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the non-Islamic world?.
many centuries, brotherhood described.	 For many centuries, what was the Brotherhood described as?.
brotherhood opposition group outside egypt able election.	The Brotherhood was the only opposition group outside of Egypt able to do what during elections?.
percentage seat political party identifying islamist win egyptian parliamentary election 2012-2013.	What percentage of seats did political parties identifying as Islamist win in the Egyptian parliamentary election of 2012-2013?.
first democratically elected president outside egypt.	 Who was the first democratically elected president outside of Egypt?.
defeat arab troop hand israeli troop six-day war.	What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Six-Day War?.
defeat arab troop six-day war constituted arab muslim world.	The defeat of the Arab troops in the Six-Day War constituted what for the Arab Muslim world?.
secular arab nationalism blamed defeat arab troop well type stagnation.	Secular Arab nationalism was blamed for both the defeat of Arab troops as well as what type of stagnation?.
happened credibility secular politics result six-day war.	What happened to the credibility of secular politics as a result of the Six-Day War?.
gained ground arab nationalism suffered.	What gained ground when Arab nationalism suffered?.
defeat arab troop hand israeli troop seven-day war.	What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Seven-Day War?.
defeat arab troop seven-day war constituted arab muslim world.	The defeat of the Arab troops in the Seven-Day War constituted what for the Arab Muslim world?.
secular arab nationalism blamed success arab troop well type stagnation.	Secular Arab nationalism was blamed for both the success of Arab troops as well as what type of stagnation?.
happened credibility secular politics result eight-day war.	 What happened to the credibility of secular politics as a result of the Eight-Day War?.
declined arab nationalism suffered.	 What declined when Arab nationalism suffered?.
ideologue iranian revolution.	Who was the ideologue of the Iranian Revolution?.
mohammad iqbal type father state pakistan.	Mohammad Iqbal was what type of father to the State of Pakistan?.
khomeini's belief fall compared mawdudi qutb.	Where does Khomeini's beliefs fall as compared to Mawdudi and Qutb?.
essential islam imitate.	Who was it essential to Islam to imitate?.
long term agenda act plundering muslim land west.	What long term agenda was the acts of plundering Muslim lands by the West?.
ideologue iranian revolution.	Who was not the ideologue of the Iranian Revolution?.
mohammad iqbal type enemy state pakistan.	 Mohammad Iqbal was what type of enemy to the State of Pakistan?.
essential islam imitate.	 Who was it essential for Islam to not imitate?.
hat long term agenda act plundering muslim land east.	hat long term agenda was the acts of plundering Muslim lands by the East?.
republic maintained control iran.	What Republic has maintained its control of Iran?.
type sanction u directed iran.	What type of sanctions has the US directed at Iran?.
iran assisted type group iraq.	Iran has assisted what type of groups in Iraq?.
iranian government enjoy something resurgence.	When did the Iranian government enjoy something of a resurgence?.
stated wanted israel vanish.	Who stated he wanted Israel to vanish?.
republic maintained control afghanistan.	What Republic has maintained its control of Afghanistan?.
type sanction canada directed iran.	 What type of sanctions has Canada directed at Iran?.
iran assisted type group china.	Iran has assisted what type of groups in China?.
iranian government get resurgence.	When did the Iranian government not get a resurgence?.
stated want israel vanish.	 Who stated he did not want Israel to vanish?.
deployed army afghanistan 1979.	Who deployed its army into Afghanistan in 1979?.
soviet union trying suppress army.	What was the Soviet Union trying to suppress with its army?.
conflict galvanize muslim around world.	What did the conflict galvanize Muslims around the world to do?.
effective military use "afghan arabs".	How effective was the military use of the "Afghan Arabs"?.
many muslim came around world fight afghanistan.	How many Muslims came from around the world to fight in Afghanistan?.
deployed army iraq 1979.	Who deployed its army into Iraq in 1979?.
soviet union trying motivate army.	 What was the Soviet Union trying to motivate with its army?.
conflict galvanize non-muslims around world.	 What did the conflict galvanize non-Muslims around the world to do?.
ineffective military use "afghan arabs".	 How ineffective was the military use of the "Afghan Arabs"?.
many muslim came iraq fight afghanistan.	How many Muslims came from Iraq to fight in Afghanistan?.
gulf war inadvertently early 1990s.	What did the Gulf War inadvertently do in the early 1990s?.
whose occupation kuwait u military personal seek put end.	Whose occupation of Kuwait did the US military personal seek to put an end to?.
1990, saudi arabia played important role restraining group.	Up until 1990, Saudi Arabia played an important role in restraining what groups?.
monarchy western troop protect.	What monarchy did western troops protect?.
whose puppet islamist accuse saudi regime.	Whose puppet did Islamists accuse the Saudi regime of being?.
gulf war purpose early 1990s.	 What did the Gulf War do on purpose in the early 1990s?.
whose occupation kuwait iraq military personal seek put end.	 Whose occupation of Kuwait did Iraq military personal seek to put an end to?.
1990, saudi arabia played unimportant role restraining group.	Up until 1990, Saudi Arabia played an unimportant role in restraining what groups?.
monarchy eastern troop protect.	 What monarchy did Eastern troops protect?.
whose puppet islamist support saudi regime.	 Whose puppet did Islamists support the Saudi regime of being?.
attack resonate.	Who did the attacks resonate most with?.
american troop remain stationed saddam's defeat.	Where did American troops remain stationed after Saddam's defeat?.
saudi arabia try repress compensate loss stature.	What did Saudi Arabia try to repress to compensate for its loss of stature? .
bloody civil war break.	Where did a bloody civil war break out?.
masterminded many terror attack.	Who masterminded many terror attacks?.
attack resonate least.	Who did the attacks resonate least with?.
american troop remain stationed saddam's win.	Where did American troops remain stationed after Saddam's win?.
saudi arabia try repress compensate loss stature.	What did Saudi Arabia not try to repress to compensate for its loss of stature?.
not-bloody civil war break.	 Where did a not-bloody civil war break out?.
mastermind many terror attack.	 Who did not mastermind many terror attacks?.
whose idea became increasingly radical imprisonment.	Whose ideas became increasingly radical during his imprisonment? .
qutb executed.	When was Qutb executed?.
organization led hasan al-hudaybi.	What organization was led by Hasan al-Hudaybi?.
movement pursued radical direction.	What movements pursued a more radical direction?.
brotherhood renounced violence mean achieving goal.	When had the Brotherhood renounced violence as a means of achieving its goals?.
whose idea become increasingly radical imprisonment.	Whose ideas did not become increasingly radical during his imprisonment?.
qutb born.	 When was Qutb born?.
organization defeated hasan al-hudaybi.	 What organization was defeated by Hasan al-Hudaybi?.
movement pursue radical direction.	 What movements did not pursue a more radical direction?.
brotherhood support violence mean achieving goal.	When did the Brotherhood support violence as a means of achieving its goals?.
took path violence.	Who took up the path of violence?.
egyptian islamic jihad assassinate anwar sadat.	When did the Egyptian Islamic Jihad assassinate Anwar Sadat?.
leader islamic extremist attack.	Which leaders did the Islamic extremists attack?.
sin leader extremist attacked guilty.	What sin were the leaders the extremists attacked guilty of?.
wrote pamphlet outlining radical idea extremist.	Who wrote a pamphlet outlining the radical ideas of the extremists?.
rejected path violence.	Who rejected the path of violence?.
egyptian islamic jihad support anwar sadat.	 When did the Egyptian Islamic Jihad support Anwar Sadat?.
leader islamic extremist attack.	 Which leaders did the Islamic extremists not attack?.
sin leader extremist attacked innocent.	 What sin were the leaders the extremists attacked innocent of?.
wrote pamphlet outlining non-radical idea extremist.	Who wrote a pamphlet outlining the non-radical ideas of the extremists?.
al-gama'a al-islamiyya use get way.	What did al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya use to get its way?.
100 egyptian police victim group's campaign terror.	Over 100 Egyptian police were victims of what group's campaign of terror?.
islamic group's campaign overthrow government turn.	How did the Islamic Group's campaign to overthrow the government turn out?.
jamaa islamiya renounce violence.	When did Jamaa Islamiya renounce violence?.
islamic liberation party attempted assassinate.	Who has the Islamic Liberation Party attempted to assassinate? .
al-gama'a al-islamiyya use get way.	 What did al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya use to not get its way?.
300 egyptian police victim group's campaign terror.	Over 300 Egyptian police were victims of what group's campaign of terror?.
islamic group's campaign support government turn.	How did the Islamic Group's campaign to support the government turn out?.
jamaa islamiya accept violence.	 When did Jamaa Islamiya accept violence?.
islamic liberation party never attempted assassinate.	 Who has the Islamic Liberation Party never attempted to assassinate?.
1987, stance muslim brotherhood palestine take towards israel.	Until 1987, what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Palestine take towards Israel?.
organization devoted jihad israel.	What organization is devoted to Jihad against Israel?.
hamas charter uncompromisingly encourage.	What did the Hamas charter uncompromisingly encourage?.
hamas want establish islamic state.	Where does HAMAS want to establish an Islamic state?.
brotherhood's member consuming beverage.	The Brotherhood's members are against consuming what beverage?.
1987, stance muslim brotherhood iraq take towards israel.	Until 1987, what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Iraq take towards Israel?.
organization devoted jihad iraq.	 What organization is devoted to Jihad against Iraq?.
hamas charter compromisingly encourage.	 What did the Hamas charter compromisingly encourage?.
hamas want establish islamic state.	 Where does HAMAS not want to establish an Islamic state?.
brotherhood's member support consuming beverage.	The Brotherhood's members are in support of consuming what beverage?.
organization continued major disruptive force palestine.	What organization has continued to be a major disruptive force in Palestine?.
many people hamas kill 2000 2007.	How many people did Hamas kill between 2000 to 2007?.
hamas win january 2006 legislative election.	What did Hamas win in the January 2006 legislative election?.
hamas drive plo gaza.	When did Hamas drive the PLO out of Gaza?.
muslim praised hamas.	What have Muslims praised Hamas for doing?.
organization stopped major disruptive force palestine.	What organization has stopped being a major disruptive force in Palestine?.
many people hamas kill 2010 2017.	How many people did Hamas kill between 2010 to 2017?.
hamas lose january 2006 legislative election.	 What did Hamas lose in the January 2006 legislative election?.
hamas keep plo gaza.	 When did Hamas keep the PLO in Gaza?.
muslim rejected hamas.	 What have Muslims rejected Hamas for doing?.
type regime ruled sudan many year.	What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many years?.
leader islamist regime sudan.	Who was the leader of the Islamist regime in Sudan?.
organization general gaafar al-nimeiry invite member serve government.	What organization did General Gaafar al-Nimeiry invite members of to serve in his government?.
turabi build strong economic base.	How did Turabi build a strong economic base?.
turabi place student sympathetic view.	Where did Turabi place students sympathetic to his views?.
type regime ruled sudan many decade.	 What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many decades?.
organization general gaafar al-nimeiry discourage member serve government.	What organization did General Gaafar al-Nimeiry discourage members of to serve in his government?.
turabi build weak economic base.	 How did Turabi build a weak economic base?.
turabi place student apathetic view.	 Where did Turabi place students apathetic to his views?.
al-nimeiry overthrown.	When was al-Nimeiry overthrown?.
party overthrow elected government 1989.	How did the party overthrow the elected government in 1989?.
though turabi proclaimed support democratic process, strictly applied coming power.	Though Turabi proclaimed his support for the democratic process, he strictly applied what after coming into power?.
nif regime harbor prior 9/11.	Who did the NIF regime harbor prior to 9/11?.
nif try unify islamist opposition.	What did the NIF try to unify Islamist opposition against?.
al-nimeiry accepted.	When was al-Nimeiry accepted?.
party overthrow elected government 1929.	 How did the party overthrow the elected government in 1929?.
though turabi proclaimed rejection democratic process, strictly applied coming power.	Though Turabi proclaimed his rejection for the democratic process, he strictly applied what after coming into power?.
nif regime harbor prior 9/11.	 Who did the NIF regime not harbor prior to 9/11?.
acronym fis stand.	What does the acronym FIS stand for?.
fis formed.	Where was the FIS formed?.
fis founded.	When was the FIS founded?.
one fis' agenda item force woman start.	One of FIS' agenda items was to force women to start doing what?.
national election 1991 canceled.	What were the national elections in 1991 canceled by?.
acronym fiss stand.	What does the acronym FISS stand for?.
flis formed.	 Where was the FLIS formed?.
flis founded.	 When was the FLIS founded?.
one fis' agenda item force men start.	 One of FIS' agenda items was to force men to start doing what?.
national election 1994 canceled.	What were the national elections in 1994 canceled by?.
unsurprisingly, mujahideen's victory soviet 1980s failed produce.	Unsurprisingly, the mujahideen's victory against the Soviets in the 1980s failed to produce what?.
type civil war fought political tribal warlord.	What type of civil war was fought between political and tribal warlords?.
civil war leave state afghanistan's economy.	What did the civil war leave the state of Afghanistan's economy in?.
democratic republic afghanistan collapse.	When did the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan collapse?.
much afghanistan taliban take.	How much of Afghanistan did the Taliban take over?.
unsurprisingly, mujahideen's victory soviet 1980s succeeded produce.	Unsurprisingly, the mujahideen's victory with the Soviets in the 1980s succeeded to produce what?.
type civil war fought political tribal warlord.	What type of civil war was not fought between political and tribal warlords?.
civil war leave state iraq economy.	 What did the civil war leave the state of Iraq economy in?.
democratic republic iraq collapse.	 When did the Democratic Republic of Iraq collapse?.
much iraq taliban take.	How much of Iraq did the Taliban take over?.
thousand madrasah spawned organization.	Thousands of madrasahs spawned what organization?.
support governmental religious group come.	Where did support from governmental and religious groups come from?.
taliban different moment could accurately described.	The Taliban was so different from other moments that they could be more accurately described as being what?.
taliban want subject entire country.	What did the Taliban want to subject the entire country to?.
influenced taliban's ideology.	Who influenced the Taliban's ideology?.
hundred madrasah spawned organization.	Hundreds of madrasahs spawned what organization?.
rejection governmental religious group come.	 Where did rejection from governmental and religious groups come from?.
taliban similar moment could accurately described.	The Taliban was so similar to other moments that they could be more accurately described as being what?.
taliban want subject small part country.	 What did the Taliban want to subject a small part of the country to?.
influenced non-taliban ideology.	 Who influenced the non-Taliban ideology?.
regime pakistan overthrown general zia-ul-haq.	When was the regime in Pakistan overthrown by General Zia-ul-Haq?.
bhutto planned banning within six months, overthrown.	What had Bhutto planned on banning within six months, before he was overthrown?.
zia-ul-haq's official state ideology.	What was Zia-ul-Haq's official state ideology?.
zia-ul-haq accused using islamization legitimize.	What was Zia-ul-Haq accused of using Islamization to legitimize? .
zia-ul-haq killed.	When was Zia-ul-Haq killed?.
regime pakistan accepted general zia-ul-haq.	When was the regime in Pakistan accepted by General Zia-ul-Haq?.
bhutto planned approving within six months, overthrown.	What had Bhutto planned on approving within six months, before he was overthrown?.
zia-ul-haq's non-official state ideology.	 What was Zia-ul-Haq's non-official state ideology?.
zia-ul-haq supported using islamization legitimize.	 What was Zia-ul-Haq supported for using Islamization to legitimize?.
zia-ul-haq born.	When was Zia-ul-Haq born?.
type group islamic state.	What type of group is The Islamic State?.
lead islamic state.	Who leads The Islamic State?.
islamic state proclaim 2014.	What did the Islamic State proclaim itself in 2014?.
many people islamic state control territory march 2015.	How many people did the Islamic State control the territory of as of March 2015?.
islamic state lack international community.	What does the Islamic State lack from the international community?.
type group non-islamic state.	What type of group is The non-Islamic State?.
refuse lead islamic state.	 Who refuses to lead The Islamic State?.
islamic state proclaim 2015.	 What did the Islamic State proclaim itself in 2015?.
many people islamic state control territory february 2015.	How many people did the Islamic State control the territory of as of February 2015?.
islamic state surplus international community.	What does the Islamic State have a surplus of from the international community?.
isil pledge allegiance al-qaeda.	When did ISIL pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda?.
western force invade iraq.	When did Western forces invade Iraq?.
syrian civil war begin.	When did the Syrian Civil War begin?.
al-qaeda tell isil take hike.	Why did al-Qaeda tell ISIL to take a hike?.
united nation designed isil.	What has the United Nations designed ISIL?.
isil refuse pledge allegiance al-qaeda.	When did ISIL refuse to pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda?.
eastern force invade iraq.	 When did Eastern forces invade Iraq?.
syrian civil war end.	 When did the Syrian Civil War end?.
united nation claimed isil.	 What has the United Nations not claimed ISIL to be?.
what's party's take muslim history.	What's the party's take on Muslim history?.
four rightly guided caliph die.	When did the four rightly guided Caliphs die?.
ottoman caliphate abolished.	When was the Ottoman Caliphate abolished?.
abolition ottoman caliphate believed ended system.	The abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate is believed to have ended what system?.
colonial power blamed.	What are colonial powers blamed for?.
what's party's take muslim present.	What's the party's take on Muslim present?.
five rightly guided caliph die.	 When did the five rightly guided Caliphs die?.
ottoman caliphate maintained.	 When was the Ottoman Caliphate maintained?.
abolition ottoman caliphate believed started system.	The abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate is believed to have started what system?.
colonial power praised.	 What are colonial powers praised for?.
type jihad ht avoid engaging.	What type of jihad does HT avoid engaging in?.
ht strive amass power.	How does HT strive to amass power?.
specifically ht target change opinion.	Who specifically does HT target to change the opinion of?.
ht fail pull bloodless coup 1974.	Where did HT fail to pull off a bloodless coup in 1974?.
many ht member graduated joining.	What have many HT members graduated to joining?.
type jihad ht prefer engage.	What type of jihad does HT prefer to engage in?.
ht strive give power.	How does HT strive to give up power?.
specifically ht target maintain opinion.	Who specifically does HT target to maintain the opinion of?.
ht succeed pulling bloodless coup 1974.	 Where did HT succeed in pulling off a bloodless coup in 1974?.
many ht member failed join.	 What have many HT members failed to to join?.
many muslim greater london.	How many Muslims are in Greater London?.
type outlook muslim london.	What type of outlook do some of the Muslims in London have?.
channel 4 documentary undercover mosque air.	When did the Channel 4 documentary Undercover Mosque air?.
perceived british policy hand muslim population resulted derogatory term london.	The perceived British policy of being hands off of its Muslim population has resulted in what derogatory term for London?.
abu hamaz al-masri charged arrested.	What was Abu Hamaz al-Masri charged with when he was arrested?.
many non-muslims greater london.	How many non-Muslims are in Greater London?.
type outlook non-muslims london.	 What type of outlook do some of the non-Muslims in London have?.
channel 8 documentary undercover mosque air.	 When did the Channel 8 documentary Undercover Mosque air?.
perceived british policy hand muslim population resulted derogatory term france.	The perceived British policy of being hands off of its Muslim population has resulted in what derogatory term for France?.
abu hamaz al-masri charged freed.	What was Abu Hamaz al-Masri charged with when he was freed?.
long u.s. government actively engaged effort counter islamism.	How long as the U.S. government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism?.
department u.s. spearheaded effort islamism.	What department in the U.S. spearheaded the efforts against Islamism? .
called agency created solely focused undermining islamism ideology.	Who called for an agency to be created to be solely focused at undermining the Islamism ideology?.
position government robert gate hold.	What position in the government does Robert Gates hold?.
u.s. information agency charged cold war.	What was the U.S. Information Agency charged with doing during the Cold War?.
long canadian government actively engaged effort counter islamism.	How long as the Canadian government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism?.
department u.s. spearheaded effort support islamism.	What department in the U.S. spearheaded the efforts to support Islamism?.
called agency destroyed undermining islamism ideology.	 Who called for an agency to be destroyed for undermining the Islamism ideology?.
position government robert gate fired.	 What position in the government was Robert Gates fired from?.
u.s. information agency charged warm war.	 What was the U.S. Information Agency charged with doing during the Warm War?.
word imperialism origin ancient language.	The word imperialism has it's origins in which ancient language? .
mean imperialism usually administered.	By what means is imperialism usually administered?.
term imperialism applied western countries, eastern county.	The term imperialism has been applied to western countries, and which eastern county?.
imperialism responsible rapid spread.	Imperialism is responsible for the rapid spread of what?.
word imperialism origin modern language.	The word imperialism has it's origins in which modern language?.
mean imperialism never administered.	 By what means is imperialism never administered?.
century consider beginning imperialism.	 In which century do most consider the beginning of imperialism?.
term imperialism never applied western countries, eastern county.	The term imperialism has never been applied to western countries, and which eastern county?.
imperialism responsible slow spread.	 Imperialism is responsible for the slow spread of what?.
imperialism extends country's power.	Imperialism extends a country's power and what?.
colonial rule would considered type imperialism.	colonial rule would be considered what type of imperialism?.
imperialism often divide country using technique.	imperialism often divides countries by using which technique?.
informal imperialism still dominant; however, le.	Informal imperialism is still dominant; however, less what?.
imperialism extend country's power.	Imperialism does not extend a country's power and what?.
colonial rule would considered type imperialism.	 colonial rule would not be considered what type of imperialism?.
process imperialism never focused controlling group people.	The process of imperialism never focused on controlling which group of people?.
imperialism often unites country using technique.	 imperialism often unites countries by using which technique?.
informal imperialism still dominant; however,.	 Informal imperialism is still dominant; however, more what?.
forced trade agreement two country would example.	A forced trade agreement between two countries would be an example of what?.
colonial rule, physical occupation territory example kind imperialism.	colonial rule, or physical occupation of a territory is an example of what kind of imperialism?.
generalized meaning word imperialism general-purpose.	Some have generalized the meaning of the word imperialism down to general-purpose what?.
costly, formal, informal imperialism.	Which is more costly, formal, or informal imperialism?.
subtle tool used informal imperialistic situation expand controlled area.	What subtle tool can be used in an informal imperialistic situation to expand a controlled area?.
forced trade agreement two country example.	A forced trade agreement between two countries is not an example of what?.
colonial rule, physical occupation territory example kind imperialism.	colonial rule, or physical occupation of a territory is not an example of what kind of imperialism?.
nobody generalized meaning word imperialism general-purpose.	 Nobody has generalized the meaning of the word imperialism down to general-purpose what?.
le costly, formal, informal imperialism.	 Which is less costly, formal, or informal imperialism?.
subtle tool used informal imperialistic situation expand controlled area.	What subtle tool can not be used in an informal imperialistic situation to expand a controlled area?.
amount land country control greatest.	The amount of land a country controls is its greatest what?.
western imperialism divided globe according theory.	Western Imperialism divided the globe according to which theory?.
suggested imperialism "highest" form capitalism.	Who suggested that imperialism was the "highest" form of capitalism?.
one country's authority number others would constitute original country.	One country's authority over a number of others would constitute the original country as what?.
imperialism carried using method transport.	Most imperialism was carried out using which method of transport?.
amount land country control worst.	The amount of land a country controls is its worst what?.
western imperialism united globe according theory.	 Western Imperialism united the globe according to which theory?.
suggested imperialism "lowest" form capitalism.	Who suggested that imperialism was the "lowest" form of capitalism?.
one country's authority others would constitute original country.	One country's authority over no others would constitute the original country as what?.
imperialism carried using method transport.	No imperialism was carried out using which method of transport?.
imperialism confused term.	Imperialism is confused with what other term?.
colonialism lack imperialism.	What does colonialism lack that imperialism has?.
colonialism policy caused financial reason.	Colonialism as a policy is caused by financial and what other reasons?.
besides russian often left colonialism debat.	Who besides the Russians are often left out of the colonialism debat?.
imperialism colonialism assert state dominance.	Imperialism and colonialism both assert a states dominance over what?.
imperialism synonymous term.	Imperialism is synonymous with what other term?.
colonialism imperialism share.	 What does colonialism and imperialism share?.
colonialism policy never caused financial reason.	Colonialism as a policy is never caused by financial and what other reasons?.
besides russian often included colonialism debat.	Who besides the Russians are often included in the colonialism debat?.
imperialism colonialism assert state dominance.	Imperialism and colonialism don't assert a states dominance over what?.
political advantage attribute state policy.	Political advantage is an attribute of which state policies?.
colonialism often mean country.	Colonialism often means a country doing what?.
would one create empire mean imperialism.	How would one create an empire by means of Imperialism?.
conquering people pas native population.	what do conquering people pass down to native populations?.
colonialism's core meaning.	What is colonialism's core meaning?.
political disadvantage attribute state policy.	Political disadvantage is an attribute of which state policies?.
colonialism never mean country.	 Colonialism never means a country doing what?.
would one create empire mean non-imperialism.	 How would one create an empire by means of non-Imperialism?.
conquering people take away native population.	 what do conquering people take away from native populations?.
colonialism's antithesis.	 What is colonialism's antithesis?.
controversial aspect imperialism.	what is the most controversial aspect of imperialism?.
j. a. hobson wanted race develop world.	 J. A. Hobson wanted which races to develop the world?.
friedrich ratzel thought needed state survive.	Friedrich Ratzel thought what was needed for a state to survive?.
theory justifies imperialism part.	Which theory justifies imperialism in part?.
latin america revered skin color.	In Latin America what is the most revered skin color?.
least controversial aspect imperialism.	what is the least controversial aspect of imperialism?.
j. a. hobson want race develop world.	 J. A. Hobson didn't want which races to develop the world?.
friedrich ratzel thought needed state survive.	 Friedrich Ratzel thought what was not needed for a state to survive?.
theory justify imperialism part.	 Which theory does not justify imperialism in part?.
america revered skin color.	 In America what is the most revered skin color?.
friedrich ratzel born.	Where was Friedrich Ratzel born?.
halford mackinder born.	Where was Halford Mackinder born?.
halford mackinder friedrich ratzel kind geographer.	Halford Mackinder and Friedrich Ratzel where what kind of geographers?.
friedrich ratzel thought imperialism country.	Friedrich Ratzel thought imperialism was what for the country?.
would geographical society europe support certain traveler.	How would the geographical societies in Europe support certain travelers?.
friedrich ratzel work.	Where did Friedrich Ratzel work?.
halford mackinder work.	Where did Halford Mackinder work?.
halford mackinder friedrich ratzel kind philosopher.	Halford Mackinder and Friedrich Ratzel where what kind of philosophers?.
friedrich ratzel thought imperialism country.	 Friedrich Ratzel thought imperialism was not what for the country?.
would geographical society europe reject certain traveler.	How would the geographical societies in Europe reject certain travelers?.
theory suggested people tropic uncivilized.	Which theory suggested people in the tropics were uncivilized?.
according ellen churchill semple type climate necessary human become fully human.	According to Ellen Churchill Semple what type of climate was necessary for humans to become fully human?.
book edward said portrayed east "others".	Which book by Edward Said portrayed the east as being the "others?".
according certain geographical theory type human tropical climate produce.	According to certain Geographical theories what type of human does a tropical climate produce?.
justification certain racial geographical theories, europe thought.	By justification certain racial and geographical theories, Europe thought of itself as what?.
theory suggested people tropic civilized.	Which theory suggested people in the tropics were civilized?.
according ellen churchill semple type climate unnecessary human become fully human.	According to Ellen Churchill Semple what type of climate was unnecessary for humans to become fully human?.
book edward said portrayed west "others".	Which book by Edward Said portrayed the west as being the "others?".
according certain geographical theory type human non-tropical climate produce.	According to certain Geographical theories what type of human does a non-tropical climate produce?.
justification certain racial geographical theories, asia thought.	 By justification certain racial and geographical theories, Asia thought of itself as what?.
imperialism often associated sovereignty.	Imperialism is most often associated with which sovereignty?.
law justified british imperialism.	What law justified British imperialism?.
native inhabitant australia called.	What were the native inhabitants of Australia called?.
great britain colonize australia.	When did Great Britain colonize Australia?.
terra nullius latin expression meaning english.	Terra Nullius is a Latin expression meaning what in English?.
imperialism le often associated sovereignty.	 Imperialism is less often associated with which sovereignty?.
law justify british imperialism.	 What law did not justify British imperialism?.
non-native inhabitant australia called.	 What were the non-native inhabitants of Australia called?.
great britain colonize outside australia.	 When did Great Britain colonize outside of Australia?.
terra nullius french expression meaning english.	 Terra Nullius is a French expression meaning what in English?.
orientalism refers west developed east.	Orientalism refers to how the West developed a what of the East?.
early western text referencing east describe people.	Early Western texts referencing the East describe the people as being what?.
west saw east.	The West saw the East as what?.
used west justify control eastern territory.	What was used by the West to justify control over eastern territories?.
west saw compared east.	The West saw themselves as what compared to the east?.
orientalism refers south developed north.	Orientalism refers to how the South developed a what of the North?.
early western text referencing north describe people.	Early Western texts referencing the North describe the people as being what?.
north saw south.	The North saw the South as what?.
used north justify control western territory.	 What was used by the North to justify control over western territories?.
north saw compared east.	 The North saw themselves as what compared to the east?.
bassett focus illustrate idea.	bassett focuses on what to illustrate his idea?.
provided incentive western empire colonize africa.	What provided an incentive to western empires to colonize Africa?.
blank space used nineteenth-century map.	What were blank spaces used for on nineteenth-century maps?.
basset analyze coming conclusion.	What did Basset analyze before coming to his conclusions?.
besides british colonized africa.	Who besides the british colonized Africa?.
bassett focus illustrate idea.	 bassett doesn't focus on what to illustrate his idea?.
provided incentive eastern empire colonize africa.	 What provided an incentive to eastern empires to colonize Africa?.
basset analyze coming conclusion.	 What did Basset analyze after coming to his conclusions?.
besides british colonized asia.	 Who besides the british colonized Asia?.
used imperialism rule mongol empire.	Who used imperialism during their rule of the Mongol Empire?.
era aztec incan empire thrive.	During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires thrive?.
asante lunda empire region.	The Asante and Lunda Empires were in which region?.
many muslim empire used imperialism.	How many Muslim empires have used imperialism?.
older british empire ethiopian empire.	Which is older the British Empire or the Ethiopian Empire?.
use imperialism rule mongol empire.	 Who didn't use imperialism during their rule of the Mongol Empire?.
era aztec incan empire thrive.	 During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires not thrive?.
asante lunda empire region.	 The Asante and Lunda Empires were not in which region?.
many non-muslim empire used imperialism.	 How many non-Muslim empires have used imperialism?.
younger french empire ethiopian empire.	 Which is younger the French Empire or the Ethiopian Empire?.
imperialism impact social norm state, called.	When imperialism impacts social norms of a state, what is it called?.
cultural imperialism often referred.	What is Cultural Imperialism often referred to as?.
american show changed view romanian cold war.	Which American show changed the views of Romanians during the cold war?.
historic empire used cultural imperialism sway local elite.	Which historic empire used cultural imperialism to sway local elites?.
regime fight cultural imperialism.	How do regimes fight against cultural imperialism?.
imperialism impact social norm state, called.	When imperialism does not impact social norms of a state, what is it called?.
cultural imperialism never referred.	 What is Cultural Imperialism never referred to as?.
american show changed view romanian cold war.	Which American did not show changed the views of Romanians during the cold war?.
historic empire used cultural imperialism sway non-local elite.	 Which historic empire used cultural imperialism to sway non-local elites?.
regime fight cultural imperialism.	 How do regimes not fight against cultural imperialism?.
age imperialism begin.	When did the age of Imperialism begin?.
european country 1700's.	What were European countries doing during the 1700's?.
many year imperialistic practice existed.	How many years have imperialistic practices existed?.
age imperialism end.	When did the age of imperialism end?.
name imperialistic policy china.	What was the name of the imperialistic policy in China?.
age imperialism end.	 When did the age of Imperialism end?.
european country 1700's.	 What were European countries not doing during the 1700's?.
many year non-imperialistic practice existed.	 How many years have non-imperialistic practices existed?.
age imperialism begin.	 When did the age of imperialism begin?.
name non-imperialistic policy china.	 What was the name of the non-imperialistic policy in China?.
john gallagher born.	When was John Gallagher born?.
ronald robinson die.	When did Ronald Robinson die?.
profession ronald robinson john gallagher.	What profession were Ronald Robinson and John Gallagher?.
grew global scale result imperialism.	What grew on a global scale as a result of imperialism?.
made rich prosperous prior world war 1.	Who was made rich and prosperous prior to World War 1.
historian popular 21st century.	Which historian was popular in the 21st century? .
profession ronald robinson john gallagher share.	 What profession did Ronald Robinson and John Gallagher not share?.
grew global scale result non-imperialism.	What grew on a global scale as a result of non-imperialism?.
made rich prosperous prior world war 2.	 Who was made rich and prosperous prior to World War 2?.
european imperialism focused.	European imperialism was focused on what?.
european empire rely supply resource.	What did European empires rely on to supply them with resources?.
colonization india occur.	When did the colonization of India occur?.
britain exploit india.	Who did Britain exploit in India?.
european imperialism never focused.	European imperialism was never focused on what?.
european empire rely supply resource.	 What did European empires not rely on to supply them with resources?.
colonization india occur.	 When did the colonization of India not occur?.
britain exploit india.	 Who did Britain not exploit in India?.
made valid late 19th 20th century.	 What was made valid in the late 19th and 20th centuries?.
advancement besides military technology europe achieve.	What advancements besides military technology did Europe achieve?.
european chemist make could used warfare.	What did European chemists make that could be used in warfare?.
invented 1880 revolutionized warfare.	what was invented in 1880 that revolutionized warfare?.
weapon zulu using anglo-zulu war 1879.	What weapons were the Zulus using during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879?.
region invented machine gun.	Which region invented the machine gun?.
advancement besides military technology europe achieve.	What advancements besides military technology did Europe not achieve?.
european chemist make could used warfare.	 What didn't European chemists make that could be used in warfare?.
invented 1888 revolutionized warfare.	what was invented in 1888 that revolutionized warfare?.
weapon zulu using anglo-zulu war 1880.	 What weapons were the Zulus using during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1880?.
region invent machine gun.	Which region did not invent the machine gun?.
theory imperialism use country model.	Theories on imperialism use which country as a model?.
term imperialism first come used current definition.	When did the term imperialism first come to be used by its current definition?.
idealized value imperialism.	What was the idealized value of imperialism?.
according lenin must capitalistic country imperialistic policy.	According to Lenin why must capitalistic countries have an imperialistic policy?.
theory imperialism use country model.	Theories on imperialism don't use which country as a model?.
term imperialism first come used current definition.	 When didn't the term imperialism first come to be used by its current definition?.
idealized value imperialism.	 What wasn't the idealized value of imperialism?.
according lenin must capitalistic country imperialistic policy.	 According to Lenin why must capitalistic countries not have an imperialistic policy?.
latest marxist claim imperialism extension capitalism root.	 When is the latest most Marxists claim imperialism as an extension of capitalism has its roots.
debate correlation capitalism, imperialism,.	some debate that there is a correlation between capitalism, imperialism, and what?.
joseph schumpeter norman angell prolific writing period.	When were Joseph Schumpeter and Norman Angell at their most prolific writing period?.
military-political complex reflected upon within scope understanding imperialism.	When was the military-political complex reflected upon within the scope of understanding imperialism?.
hobson argued imperialism international.	Hobson argued that imperialism was an international what?.
hobson argue rid world imperialism.	How did Hobson argue to rid the world of imperialism?.
debate correlation capitalism, imperialism,.	There is some debate that there is a not correlation between capitalism, imperialism, and what?.
joseph schumpeter norman angell prolific writing period.	 When weren't Joseph Schumpeter and Norman Angell at their most prolific writing period?.
military-political complex reflected upon within scope understanding imperialism.	 When was the military-political complex reflected upon not within the scope of understanding imperialism?.
hobson argued imperialism international.	 Hobson argued that imperialism wasn't an international what?.
hobson argue rid world imperialism.	 How did Hobson argue to not rid the world of imperialism?.
served justification imposing imperialistic policy certain people region.	What served as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions?.
thought decide person's behavior.	What was thought to decide a person's behavior?.
human tropical environment considered.	Humans in tropical environments were considered what?.
europe first colonized americas, asia, continent third.	Europe first colonized the Americas, then Asia, but what continent was third?.
two form environmental determinism.	What were the two forms of environmental determinism?.
serve justification imposing imperialistic policy certain people region.	What did not serve as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions?.
thought decide person's behavior.	 What was not thought to decide a person's behavior?.
human tropical environment considered.	 Humans in tropical environments were not considered what?.
europe first colonized americas, asia, continent fourth.	 Europe first colonized the Americas, then Asia, but what continent was fourth?.
three form environmental determinism.	 What were the three forms of environmental determinism?.
thought world could split climatic zone.	Who thought the world could be split into climatic zones?.
region temperate climate.	Which regions have temperate climates?.
european think people tropic need.	What did the the Europeans think the peoples in the tropics were in need of?.
similar view asian continent called.	What was a similar view about the Asian continent called?.
geographic scholar work.	Who did the geographic scholars work for? .
thought world could split climatic zone.	 Who thought the world could not be split into climatic zones?.
region non-temperate climate.	 Which regions have non-temperate climates?.
european think people tropic need.	 What did the the Europeans not think the peoples in the tropics were in need of?.
similar view asian continent called.	What was a similar view about the Asian continent not called?.
geographic scholar work.	 Who did the geographic scholars not work for?.
earliest britain imperialist policy.	When is the earliest Britain had an imperialist policy?.
british east india company established.	When was the British East India Company established?.
chartered british east india company.	Who chartered the British East India Company?.
happened east india trading company 1767.	What happened to the East India Trading Company in 1767?.
country trading post india britain.	Which country had trading posts in India before Britain?.
latest britain imperialist policy.	When is the latest Britain had an imperialist policy?.
british east india company unestablished.	 When was the British East India Company unestablished?.
charter british east india company.	 Who did not charter the British East India Company?.
happened east india trading company 1766.	 What happened to the East India Trading Company in 1766?.
country trading post india britain.	Which country had trading posts in India after Britain?.
france take control algeria.	When did France take control of Algeria?.
france begin earnest rebuild global empire.	When did France begin in earnest to rebuild its global empire?.
france focus effort rebuild empire.	Where did France focus its efforts to rebuild its empire?.
french republican back building french empire.	When did French Republicans back building the French empire?.
religion french spread along imperialism.	What religion did the French spread along with their imperialism? .
france take control london.	When did France take control of London?.
france begin earnest build global empire first time.	 When did France begin in earnest to build its global empire for the first time?.
france focus effort rebuild empire.	 Where did France focus its efforts to not rebuild its empire?.
french republican back building english empire.	 When did French Republicans back building the English empire?.
religion english spread along imperialism.	 What religion did the English spread along with their imperialism?.
jules ferry thought "higher races" duty.	Jules Ferry thought that the "higher races" have a duty to what?.
france offer rare imperial standard.	What did France offer that was rare by imperial standards?.
france differ britain managing colony.	How did france differ from Britain in managing its colonies?.
french thought bringing would uplift region.	The French thought bringing what would uplift other regions?.
french send large number settler.	Where did the French send a large number of settlers?.
jules ferry thought "higher races" duty.	Jules Ferry thought that the "higher races" don't have a duty to what?.
england offer rare imperial standard.	 What did England offer that was rare by imperial standards?.
france britain managing colony.	How was france the same as Britain in managing its colonies?.
english thought bringing would uplift region.	 The English thought bringing what would uplift other regions?.
charles de gaulle free french run operation world war 2.	Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free French run operations during World War 2?.
1945, challenged french empire.	After 1945, what challenged the French empire?.
france lose war 1950's.	Where did France lose a war in the 1950's?.
france win war 1950's.	Where did France win a war in the 1950's.
france's colony gain independence.	By when did most of France's Colonies gain independence?.
charles de gaulle free english run operation world war 2.	 Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free English run operations during World War 2?.
1945, challenged british empire.	 After 1945, what challenged the British empire?.
france lose war 1940's.	 Where did France lose a war in the 1940's?.
france lose war 1930's.	 Where did France lose a war in the 1930's?.
france win war 1970's.	 Where did France win a war in the 1970's.
germanic tribe originally located.	Where were the Germanic tribes originally located?.
germanic tribe claim territory north west europe.	When did the Germanic tribes claim territory in north and west Europe?.
germanic tribe conquer celtic people.	By when did the Germanic tribes conquer the Celtic peoples?.
region europe conquered germanic tribe.	What was the only region in Europe not conquered by the Germanic tribes?.
germany referred area actual country.	Germany referred to which area more so than an actual country?.
germanic tribe originally located.	Where were the Germanic tribes not originally located?.
germanic tribe claim territory north west europe.	 When did the Germanic tribes not claim territory in north and west Europe?.
germanic tribe conquer celtic people.	 By when did the Germanic tribes not conquer the Celtic peoples?.
region europe conquered germanic tribe.	 What was the only region in Europe conquered by the Germanic tribes?.
germany imperialistic past.	Germany doesn't have an imperialistic past until when?.
otto von bismarck born.	When was Otto von Bismarck born?.
second german empire founded.	When was the the second German empire founded?.
germany's central interest.	What was Germany's central interest?.
caused dissolution holy roman empire.	Who caused the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire?.
germany imperialistic future.	 Germany doesn't have an imperialistic future until when?.
otto von bismarck die.	 When did Otto von Bismarck die?.
third german empire founded.	 When was the the third German empire founded?.
germany's central interest.	 What wasn't Germany's central interest?.
cause dissolution holy roman empire.	 Who didn't cause the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire?.
besides africa, germany imperial interest.	Besides Africa, where did Germany have imperial interests?.
colony sign amongst european country.	Colonies were a sign of what amongst European countries?.
name first german settlement.	What was the name of the first German settlement?.
germany found first settlement.	When did Germany found their first settlement?.
influenced bismark besides neighbor.	Who influenced Bismark besides his neighbors?.
besides africa, ireland imperial interest.	 Besides Africa, where did Ireland have imperial interests?.
colony sign amongst asian country.	 Colonies were a sign of what amongst Asian countries?.
name second german settlement.	 What was the name of the second German settlement?.
influenced france besides neighbor.	 Who influenced France besides his neighbors?.
first sino-japanese war.	When was the first Sino-Japanese War?.
happened result russo-japanese war.	What happened as a result of the Russo-Japanese War?.
area china japan conquer 1931.	Which area of China did Japan conquer in 1931?.
country japan force alliance.	Which country did Japan force into an alliance?.
last sino-japanese war.	When was the last Sino-Japanese War?.
happen result russo-japanese war.	 What didn't happen as a result of the Russo-Japanese War?.
area china japan conquer 1935.	 Which area of China did Japan conquer in 1935?.
country japan force alliance.	 Which country did Japan not force into an alliance?.
along russia supported post ww-ii communist movement.	Who along with Russia supported post WW-II communist movements?.
russian policy "indigenization" defunded.	When was the Russian Policy "Indigenization" defunded?.
asserted russia's right "self-determination".	Who asserted Russia's right to "self-determination?".
ww-ii russia apply old tsarist regime.	After WW-II where did Russia apply its old Tsarist regimes?.
established russian empire former glory prior 1921.	Who had established the Russian empire to its former glory prior to 1921?.
along russia supported post ww-i communist movement.	 Who along with Russia supported post WW-I communist movements?.
russian policy "indigenization" funded.	 When was the Russian Policy "Indigenization" funded?.
assert russia's right "self-determination".	Who did not assert Russia's right to "self-determination?".
trotsky thought needed true russian revolution..	Trotsky thought what was needed for a true Russian revolution..
wrote imperialism highest stage capitalism.	Who wrote that imperialism is the highest stage of capitalism?.
policy stalin implement shortly lenin's death.	What policy did Stalin implement shortly after Lenin's Death?.
leader russia 1960's.	Who was the leader of Russia in the 1960's?.
argued ussr become imperialist power.	Who argued that the USSR had itself become an imperialist power?.
trotsky thought needed true russian revolution..	Trotsky thought what was not needed for a true Russian revolution..
wrote imperialism lowest stage capitalism.	 Who wrote that imperialism is the lowest stage of capitalism?.
policy stalin implement shortly lenin's birth.	 What policy did Stalin implement shortly after Lenin's birth?.
first british empire based.	What was the first British empire based on?.
great britain lose colony north america.	When did Great Britain lose its colonies in North America?.
spanish portuguese colony gain independance..	When did the Spanish and Portuguese colonies gain their independance..
policy gave britain dominance world trade.	What policy gave Britain dominance in world trade?.
defeat napoleonic france.	When was the defeat of Napoleonic France?.
first british empire based.	What wasn't the first British empire based on?.
great britain gain colony north america.	 When did Great Britain gain its colonies in North America?.
spanish portuguese colony lose independance..	 When did the Spanish and Portuguese colonies lose their independance..
policy took away britain dominance world trade.	 What policy took away Britain dominance in world trade?.
late 19th century, country largest empire ever exist world.	By the late 19th century, which country had the largest empire ever to exist in the world?.
kind science social darwinism theory race.	What kinds of sciences were Social Darwinism and theories of race?.
continent besides asia major gain made british empire late 19th century.	In which continent besides Asia were major gains made by the British Empire in the late 19th century?.
rudyard kipling influential spokesman.	Rudyard Kipling was an influential spokesman for what?.
late 19th century, country smallest empire ever exist world.	 By the late 19th century, which country had the smallest empire ever to exist in the world?.
kind literature social darwinism theory race.	 What kinds of literature were Social Darwinism and theories of race?.
continent besides asia major gain made asia empire late 19th century.	 In which continent besides Asia were major gains made by the Asia Empire in the late 19th century?.
united state plan subdue imperialistic tendency.	How did the United States plan to subdue imperialistic tendencies? .
name theodore roosevelt’s policy imperialism.	What was the name of Theodore Roosevelt’s policy of imperialism?.
country besides cuba united state try annex 1898.	Which country besides the Cuba did the United states try to annex in 1898?.
caused u public condemn occupation philippine.	What caused the US public to condemn the occupation of the philippines?.
smedley butler call u foreign policy.	What did Smedley Butler call US foreign Policy?.
united state plan subdue non-imperialistic tendency.	How did the United States plan to subdue non-imperialistic tendencies?.
name theodore roosevelt’s policy non-imperialism.	 What was the name of Theodore Roosevelt’s policy of non-imperialism?.
country besides cuba united state try annex 1898.	 Which country besides the Cuba did the United states not try to annex in 1898?.
caused u public support occupation philippine.	 What caused the US public to support the occupation of the philippines?.
director american geographical society 1914.	Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1914?.
isiah bowman appointed president wilson's inquiry.	When was Isiah Bowman appointed to President Wilson's Inquiry?.
besides woodrow wilson idea inquiry.	Who besides Woodrow Wilson himself had the idea for the inquiry?.
premise woodrow wilson's inquiry.	What was the premise of Woodrow Wilson's inquiry?.
isiah bowman nick name, known public..	What was Isiah Bowman nick name, as known by the public..
director american geographical society 1917.	 Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1917?.
isiah bowman appointed president wilson's inquiry.	 When was Isiah Bowman not appointed to President Wilson's Inquiry?.
besides woodrow wilson idea inquiry.	 Who besides Woodrow Wilson himself did not have the idea for the inquiry?.
people describe individual group imperialism colonialism.	Some people describe what between individuals or groups as imperialism or colonialism?.
u expansion westward could viewed type colonialism.	the US expansion Westward could be viewed as what type of colonialism?.
many african brought united state slave trade.	How many Africans were brought into the United States during the slave trade?.
edward said say attacked u imperialism.	Who does Edward Said say is being attacked by US imperialism?.
people describe individual group non-imperialism non-colonialism.	Some people describe what between individuals or groups as non-imperialism or non-colonialism?.
u expansion westward could viewed type non-colonialism.	 the US expansion Westward could be viewed as what type of non-colonialism?.
many african brought united state non-slave trade.	 How many Africans were brought into the United States during the non-slave trade?.
strife race canada unique form.	The strife between races in Canada is a unique form of what?.
ottoman empire fall.	When did the Ottoman Empire fall?.
reigned ottoman empire powerful..	Who reigned over the Ottoman empire when it was at its most powerful..
many province ottoman empire contain 17th century.	How many provinces did the Ottoman empire contain in the 17th century?.
ottoman empire controlled territory three continents, africa, asia.	The Ottoman empire controlled territory on three continents, Africa, Asia and which other?.
ottoman empire height.	When was the Ottoman empire at its height?.
ottoman empire rise.	 When did the Ottoman Empire rise?.
reigned ottoman empire weak..	 Who reigned over the Ottoman empire when it was at its most weak..
many province ottoman empire contain 17th century.	 How many provinces did the Ottoman empire not contain in the 17th century?.
ottoman empire controlled territory four continents, africa, asia.	 The Ottoman empire controlled territory on four continents, Africa, Asia and which other?.
capital ottoman empire.	What was the capital of the Ottoman empire?.
ottoman empire ally ww.	Who did the Ottoman empire ally with in WW I?.
country today remnant ottoman empire.	Which country today is a remnant of the Ottoman empire?.
ended turkish imperial ambition.	What ended Turkish imperial Ambitions?.
capital ottoman empire.	 What was not the capital of the Ottoman empire?.
le popular trading center ottoman empire.	 Where was the less popular trading center for the Ottoman empire?.
ottoman empire ally wwii.	 Who did the Ottoman empire ally with in WWII?.
country today remnant ottoman empire.	 Which country today is not a remnant of the Ottoman empire?.
ended french imperial ambition.	 What ended French imperial Ambitions?.
largest city poland.	What is the largest city of Poland?.
river warsaw stand.	On what river does Warsaw stand?.
far warsaw baltic sea.	How far is Warsaw from the Baltic Sea?.
many resident greater metropolitan area.	How many residents does the greater metropolitan area have?.
rank populous city european union warsaw hold.	What rank for most populous city in the European Union does Warsaw hold?.
warsaw known carpathian.	What is Warsaw known as in Carpathian?.
largest city carpathia.	What is the largest city in Carpathia?.
river run carpathia.	What river runs through Carpathia?.
many people live carpathia.	How many people live in Carpathia?.
carpathia rank term population eu.	Where does Carpathia rank in terms of population in the EU?.
ranked warsaw 32nd liveable city world.	Who ranked Warsaw as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?.
warsaw ranked 32nd liveable city world.	When was Warsaw ranked as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?.
warsaw's economy characterized.	What is Warsaw's economy characterized by?.
exchange warsaw one important central eastern europe.	What exchange in Warsaw is one of the most important for Central and Eastern Europe?.
name european union agency external border security.	What is the name of the European Union agency for external border security?.
ranked warsaw 22nd liveable city world.	Who ranked Warsaw as 22nd most liveable city in the world?.
fmcg's economy characterized.	What is FMCG's economy characterized by?.
exchange fmcg one important central eastern europe.	What exchange in the FMCG is one of the most important for Central and Eastern Europe?.
warsaw ranked 22nd liveable city world.	When was Warsaw ranked as the 22nd most liveable city in the world?.
name fmcg agency external border security.	WHat is the name of the FMCG agency for external border security?.
first reference history warsaw.	When is the first reference in history to Warsaw?.
city served poland's capital 1313.	What city served as Poland's capital in 1313?.
warsaw become capital kingdom poland.	When did Warsaw become the capital of the Kingdom of Poland?.
moved court kraków warsaw 1596.	Who moved his court from Kraków to Warsaw in 1596?.
warsaw gain title "phoenix city".	Why did Warsaw gain the title of the "Phoenix City"?.
first reference history prussia.	When was the first reference in history to Prussia?.
city served prussia's capital 1313.	What city served as Prussia's capital in 1313?.
warsaw become capital kingdom prussia.	When did Warsaw become the capital of the Kingdom of Prussia?.
moved court warsaw krakow 1596.	Who moved his court from Warsaw to Krakow in 1596?.
prussia gain title "phoenix counrty".	Why did Prussia gain the title of the "Phoenix Counrty"?.
archdiocese warsaw seat.	What archdiocese is Warsaw the seat of?.
another notable university warsaw university warsaw.	What is another notable university in Warsaw after the University of Warsaw?.
warsaw's old town listed 1980.	What was Warsaw's Old Town listed as in 1980?.
king sigimund's column example kind attraction warsaw.	King Sigimund's Column is an example of what kind of attraction in Warsaw?.
quarter warsaw filled.	What is a quarter of Warsaw filled with?.
archdiocese market square seat.	What archdiocese is Market Square the seat of?.
warsaw's market square listed 1980.	What was Warsaw's Market Square listed as in 1980?.
quarter unesco filled.	What is a quarter of UNESCO filled with?.
another notable university unesco university warsaw.	What is another notable university in UNESCO after the University of Warsaw?.
king sigimund's column example kind attraction unesco.	King Sigimund's Column is an example of what kind of attraction in UNESCO?.
warsaw's name polish language.	What is Warsaw's name in the Polish language?.
warszawa mean polish.	What does Warszawa mean in Polish?.
warsz.	Who was Warsz?.
warsz.	What did Warsz own?.
full official city name warsaw.	What is the full official city name of Warsaw?.
warsaw's name vrisovci language.	What is Warsaw's name in the Vrisovci language?.
vriscovci mean polish.	What does Vriscovci mean in Polish?.
vrisovci.	Who was Vrisovci?.
vrisovci.	What did Vrisovci own?.
full official city name miasto.	What is the full official city name of Miasto?.
city, raided clan dukes, preceded founding warszowa.	What city, raided by clans and dukes, preceded the founding of Warszowa?.
boleslaw ii masovia.	Who was Boleslaw II of Masovia?.
settlement would become warsaw established.	When was the settlement which would become Warsaw established?.
year warszowa become official capital masovian duchy.	In what year did Warszowa become the official capital of the Masovian Duchy?.
masovian duchy reincorporated polish crown.	When was the Masovian Duchy reincorporated into the Polish Crown?.
masovia ii boleslaw.	Who was Masovia II of Boleslaw?.
settlement would become boleslaw established.	When was the settlement which would become Boleslaw established?.
city, raided clan dukes, preceded founding boleslaw.	What city, raided by clans and dukes, preceded the founding of Boleslaw?.
year boleslaw become official capital masovian duchy.	In what year did Boleslaw become the official capital of the Masovian Duchy?.
bolelsaw duchy reincorporated polish crown.	When was the Bolelsaw Duchy reincorporated into the Polish Crown?.
warsaw serve seat 1529.	Who did Warsaw serve as the seat for in 1529?.
general sejm make warsaw permanent seat.	When did the General Sejm make Warsaw it's permanent seat?.
warsaw confederation formally establish 1573.	What did the Warsaw Confederation formally establish in 1573?.
warsaw become capital commonwealth.	Why did Warsaw become the capital of the Commonwealth?.
year king sigismund iii vas move court warsaw.	What year did King Sigismund III Vasa move his court to Warsaw?.
general sejm make vilnius permanent seat.	When did General Sejm make Vilnius its permanent seat?.
vilnius formally establish 1573.	What did the Vilnius formally establish in 1573?.
vilnius become capital commonwealth.	Why did Vilnius become the capital of the Commonwealth?.
year kind vilnius move court warsaw.	What year did Kind Vilnius move his court to Warsaw?.
long warsaw capital polish-lithuanian commonwealth.	How long was Warsaw the capital of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth?.
kingdom annexed warsaw 1796.	What kingdom annexed Warsaw in 1796?.
whose army liberated warsaw 1806.	Whose army liberated Warsaw in 1806?.
warsaw become center congress poland.	When did Warsaw become the center of the Congress Poland?.
royal university warsaw established.	When was the Royal University of Warsaw established?.
kingdom annexed duchy 1796.	What kingdom annexed Duchy in 1796?.
whose army liberated duchy 1806.	Whose army liberated Duchy in 1806?.
prussia become center congress poland.	When did Prussia become the center of the Congress Poland?.
royal university prussia established.	When was the Royal University of Prussia established?.
long warsaw capital duchy commonwealth.	How long was Warsaw the capital of the Duchy Commonwealth?.
long warsaw occupied germany.	How long was Warsaw occupied by Germany?.
article 12 allied armistice term require germany withdraw.	What did Article 12 of the Allied Armistice terms require Germany to withdraw from?.
set became second polish republic.	Who set up what became the Second Polish Republic?.
polish-bolshevik war fought.	When was the Polish-Bolshevik war fought?.
army warsaw successfully defend.	What army did Warsaw successfully defend itself against?.
long germany occupied poland.	How long was Germany occupied by Poland?.
article 20 allied armistice term require germany withdraw.	What did Article 20 of the Allied Armistice terms require Germany to withdraw from?.
set became second warsaw republic.	Who set up what became the Second Warsaw Republic?.
germany pitsudski war fought.	When was the Germany Pitsudski war fought?.
army germany successfully defend.	What army did Germany successfully defend itself against?.
germany invade poland start world war ii.	When did Germany invade Poland and in doing so start World War II?.
warsaw administration came rule general goverment.	Who was Warsaw under the administration of when it came under the rule of the General Goverment?.
much warsaw's population jewish.	How much of Warsaw's population was Jewish?.
hitler order annihilation warsaw ghetto.	When did Hitler order the annihilation of the Warsaw Ghetto?.
long fighter warsaw ghetto uprising able hold.	How long were the fighters of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising able to hold out?.
warsaw administration came rule jewish government.	Who was Warsaw under the administration of when it came under the rule of the Jewish Government?.
much europe's population jewish.	How much of Europe's population was Jewish?.
hitler order annihilation german ghetto.	When did Hitler order the annihilation of the German Ghetto?.
germany invade poland start world war.	When did Germany invade Poland and in doing so start World War I?.
long fighter german ghetto uprising able hold.	How long were the fighters of the German Ghetto Uprising able to hold out?.
army pushing deep polish territory pursue german 1944.	What army was pushing deep into Polish territory to pursue the Germans in 1944?.
exiled polish government london order underground home army seize control warsaw prior arrival red army.	Why did the exiled Polish government in London order the underground Home Army to seize control of Warsaw prior to the arrival of the Red Army?.
warsaw uprising begin.	When did the Warsaw Uprising begin?.
many day warsaw uprising last.	How many days did the Warsaw Uprising last?.
estimated death toll polish civilian.	What is the estimated death toll for Polish civilians? .
army pushing deep polish territory pursue home army fighter 1944.	What army was pushing deep into Polish territory to pursue The Home Army fighters in 1944?.
exiled polish government london order underground home army seize control stalin prior arrival red army.	Why did the exiled Polish government in London order the underground Home Army to seize control of Stalin prior to the arrival or the Red Army?.
red army uprising begin.	When did the Red Army Uprising begin?.
many day red armywarsaw uprising last.	How many days did the Red ArmyWarsaw Uprising last?.
estimated death toll red army.	What is the estimated death toll for the Red Army?.
campaign communist regime initiate wwii.	What campaign did the Communist regime initiate after WWII?.
type housing erected warsaw part brick warsaw process.	What type of housing was erected in Warsaw as part of the Bricks for Warsaw process?.
structure built soviet typical.	What were the structures built by the Soviets typical of?.
building gift soviet union.	What building was a gift from the Soviet Union?.
list warsaw's old town inscribed onto 1980.	What list was Warsaw's Old Town inscribed onto in 1980?.
campaign communist regime initiate wwi.	What campaign did the Communist regime initiate after WWI?.
type housing erected soviet union part brick warsaw process.	what type of housing was erected in the Soviet Union as part of the Bricks for Warsaw process? .
structure built poland typical.	What were the structures built by Poland typical of?.
building gift poland.	What building was a gift from Poland?.
list soviet union's old town inscribed onto 1980.	What list was the Soviet Union's Old Town inscribed onto in 1980?.
pope native poland.	What pope as a native of Poland?.
john paul ii's visit 1979 1983 encourage.	What did John Paul II's visits in 1979 and 1983 encourage?.
long john paul ii pope 1979.	How long had John Paul II been the pope in 1979?.
john paul ii celebrate mass warsaw.	Where did John Paul II celebrate Mass in Warsaw?.
polish citizen understand subtext john paul ii's word.	What did the Polish citizens understand the subtext of John Paul II's words to be?.
pop native germany.	What pop was a native of Germany?.
john paul ii's visit 1973 1989 encourage.	What did John Paul II's visits in 1973 and 1989 encourage?.
long john paul ii pope 1983.	How long had John Paul II been the pope in 1983?.
john paul ii celebrate mass berlin.	Where did John Paul II celebrate Mass in Berlin?.
german citizen understand subtext john paul ii's word.	What did the German citizens understand the subtext of John Paul II's words to be?.
many kilometer warsaw carpathian mountain.	How many kilometers is Warsaw from the Carpathian Mountains?.
many mile east berlin warsaw.	How many miles east of Berlin is Warsaw?.
river warsaw straddle.	What river does Warsaw straddle?.
high highest point warsaw.	How high is the highest point in Warsaw?.
lowest point warsaw located.	Where is the lowest point of Warsaw located?.
many kilometer vistula carpathian mountain.	How many kilometers is Vistula from the Carpathian Mountains?.
many mile east berlin vistula.	How many miles east of Berlin is Vistula?.
river berlin straddle.	What river does Berlin straddle?.
high highest point berlin.	How high is the highest point in Berlin?.
lowest point wesola located.	Where is the lowest point of Wesola located?.
many geomorphologic formation warsaw.	How many geomorphologic formations is Warsaw on?.
formation asymmetrical pattern different terrace.	What formation has an asymmetrical pattern of different terraces?.
axis warsaw divide two part.	What is the axis of Warsaw which divides it into two parts?.
plateau left part warsaw.	Which plateau is the left part of Warsaw on?.
edge moraine plateau called.	What is the edge of the moraine plateau called?.
formation asymmetrical pattern different landmark.	What formation has an asymmetrical pattern of different landmarks?.
many geomorphologic formation vistula.	How many geomorphologic formations is Vistula on?.
axis vistula divide two part.	What is the axis of Vistula which divides it into two parts?.
edge vistula plateau called.	What is the edge of the Vistula plateau called?.
plateau left part vistula.	Which plateau is the left part of Vistula on?.
plateau group clay pit.	What plateau has groups of clay pits?.
highest level vistula plateau contain.	What does the highest level of the Vistula plateau contain?.
currently flooded terrace still visible.	What does the currently flooded terrace still have visible?.
aeolian sand number dune found.	Where can Aeolian sand with a number of dunes be found?.
type forested area found highest terrace.	What type of forested areas can be found on the highest terrace?.
type forested area found highest ditch.	What type of forested areas can be found on the highest ditches?.
currently flooded ditch still visible.	What does the currently flooded ditch still have visible?.
aeolian sand number terrace found.	Where can Aeolian sand with a number of terraces be found?.
plateau group clay terrace.	What plateau has groups of clay terraces?.
highest level vistula dune contain.	What does the highest level of the Vistula dune contain?.
warsaw's mixture architectural style reflect.	What does Warsaw's mixture of architectural styles reflect?.
warsaw completely razed ground bombing raid.	When was Warsaw completely razed to the ground by bombing raids?.
warsaw start rebuild.	When did Warsaw start to rebuild?.
building 19th century destroyed 1950s 1960s.	What building from the 19th century was destroyed between the 1950s and 1960s?.
style mass constructed residential block designed.	What style were the mass constructed residential blocks designed in?.
warsaw palace start rebuild.	When did Warsaw Palace start to rebuild?.
warsaw palace's mixture architectural style reflect.	What does Warsaw Palace's mixture of architectural styles reflect?.
building 19th century destroyed 1930s 1940s.	What building from the 19th century was destroyed between the 1930s and 1940s?.
warsaw palace completely razed ground bombing raid.	When was Warsaw Palace completely razed to the ground by bombing raids?.
style mass constructed palace block designed.	What style were the mass constructed Palace blocks designed in?.
type architecture represented majestic church.	What type of architecture is represented in the majestic churches?.
st. john's cathedral constructed.	When was St. John's Cathedral constructed?.
st. john's cathedral example of, stylistically.	What is St. John's Cathedral an example of, stylistically?.
house baryczko merchant family notable example type architecture.	The house of the Baryczko merchant family is a notable example of what type of architecture?.
royal castle interesting example.	What is the Royal Castle the most interesting example of?.
baryczko constructed.	When was Baryczko constructed?.
baryczko's cathedral example stylistically.	What is Baryczko's Cathedral an example of stylistically?.
type architecture house st. john's merchant family notable example.	What type of architecture is the house of the St. John's merchant family a notable example of?.
type architecture represented st. john's tower.	What type of architecture is represented in the St. John's Tower?.
st. john's castle interesting example.	What is St. John's Castle the most interesting example of?.
building activity palace church take place later decade.	When did building activity in the palaces and churches take place in the later decades of?.
building activity occur st. kazimierz church.	When did building activity occur on St. Kazimierz Church?.
type architecture palace four window impressive example.	What type of architecture is the Palace of Four Windows an impressive example of?.
described simplicity geometrical form teamed inspiration roman period.	What is being described when simplicity of geometrical forms are teamed with inspiration from the Roman period?.
palace water rebuilt.	When was the Palace on the Water rebuilt?.
building activity occur banki palace.	When did building activity occur on Banki Palace?.
palace bank rebuilt.	When was the Palace on the Bank rebuilt?.
painting activity palace church take place later decade.	When did painting activity in the palaces and churches take place in the later decades of?.
type architecture palace bank impressive example.	What type of architecture is the Palace of Bank an impressive example of?.
described simplicity geometrical form teamed inspiration french period.	What is being described when simplicity of geometrical forms are teamed with inspiration from the French period?.
kronenberg palace exceptional example type architecture.	The Kronenberg Palace had been an exceptional example of what type of architecture?.
example bouregois architecture visible today.	Why aren't the examples of bouregois architecture visible today?.
style warsaw philharmony edifice built.	What style was the Warsaw Philharmony edifice built in?.
building interesting late 19th-century architecture.	What building is the most interesting of the late 19th-century architecture?.
saxon palace brühl palace prewar warsaw.	What were the Saxon Palace and Brühl Palace in prewar Warsaw?.
style paris philharmony edifice built.	What style was he Paris Philharmony edifice built in?.
saxon palace bruhl palace prewar paris.	What were the Saxon Palace and Bruhl Palace in prewar Paris?.
paris palace exceptional example type architecture.	The Paris Palace had been an exceptional example of what type of architecture?.
example parisian architecture visible today.	Why aren't the examples of Parisian architecture visible today?.
building interesting late 18th-century architecture.	What building is the most interesting of the late 18th-century architecture?.
commemorates warsaw's heroic history.	What commemorates Warsaw's heroic history?.
name infamous german gestapo prison.	What was the name of the infamous German Gestapo prison?.
fortification built 19th century defeat november uprising.	What fortification was built in the 19th century after the defeat of the November Uprising?.
statue little insurgent commemorate.	Who does the statue of Little Insurgent commemorate?.
monument memory largest insurrection wwii.	What monument is in memory of the largest insurrection of WWII?.
commemorates old town's heroic history.	What commemorates Old Town's heroic history?.
name infamous german heroic prison.	What was the name of the infamous German Heroic prison?.
statue little heroic commemorate.	Who does the statue of Little Heroic commemorate?.
fortification build 18th century defeat november uprising.	What fortification was build in the 18th century after the defeat of the November Uprising?.
monument memory largest insurrection wwi.	What monument is in memory of the largest insurrection of WWI?.
garden formally royalty.	What garden was formally only for royalty?.
many specie tree found saxon garden.	Over how many species of trees can be found in the Saxon Garden?.
end saxon garden tom unknown soldier located.	Which end of the Saxon Garden is the Tom of the Unknown Soldier located at?.
popular strolling destination varsovians.	What is a popular strolling destination for the Varsovians?.
park cover area 76 ha..	What park covers an area of 76 ha.?.
garden formally running.	What garden was formally only for running?.
popular strolling destination pheasant.	What is a popular strolling destination for pheasants?.
park cover area 74 ha..	What park covers and area of 74 ha.?.
may specie tree found caucasian garden.	Over how may species of trees can be found in the Caucasian Garden?.
end caucasian garden tomb unknown soldier located.	Which end of the Caucasian Garden is the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier located at?.
type space warsaw botanic garden university library garden.	What type of space in Warsaw are the Botanic Garden and University Library garden?.
palm house subtropic plant world display.	Where is a palm house with subtropic plants from all over the world on display?.
first horse racetrack located.	Where was the first horse racetrack located?.
park close john lennon street.	What park is close to John Lennon street?.
zoological garden established praga park.	When was a zoological garden established in the Praga Park?.
first garden located.	Where was the first garden located?.
park close vistula street.	What park is close to Vistula street?.
zoological garden established powsin park.	When was a zoological garden established in the Powsin Park?.
type space warsaw culture garden university library garden.	What type of space in Warsaw are the Culture Garden and University Library garden?.
palm house tropic plant world display.	Where is a palm house with tropic plants from all over the world on display?.
warsaw's flora rich specie.	Why is Warsaw's flora very rich in species?.
bielany forest located.	Where is Bielany Forest located?.
bielany forest last remnant.	What is the Bielany Forest the last remnant of?.
forest warsaw's southern border.	What forest is by Warsaw's southern border?.
many botanical garden warsaw.	How many botanical gardens does Warsaw have?.
many botanical garden kampinos.	How many botanical gardens does Kampinos have?.
kampinos forest located.	Where is Kampinos Forest located?.
kampinos's flora rich specie.	Why is Kampinos's flora very rich in species?.
kampinos forest last remnant.	What is the Kampinos Forest the last remnant of?.
forest kampinos's southern border.	What forest is by Kampinos's southern border?.
many natural reserve warsaw.	How many natural reserves are in Warsaw?.
far warsaw vistula river's environment change noticeably.	How far from Warsaw does the Vistula river's environment change noticeably? .
animal vistula river's ecosystem include.	What animals does the Vistula river's ecosystem include?.
many lake warsaw.	How many lakes are there in Warsaw?.
small lake park emptied winter.	Why are the small lakes in the parks emptied before winter?.
many natural reserve czerniakow.	How many natural reserves are in Czerniakow?.
far czerniakow vistula river's environment change noticeably.	How far from Czerniakow does the Vistula river's environment change noticeably?.
animal czerniakow river's ecosystem include.	What animals does the Czerniakow river's ecosystem include?.
many lake czerniakow.	How many lakes are there in Czerniakow?.
small lake czerniakow emptied winter.	Why are the small lakes in Czerniakow emptied before winter?.
warsaw diverse poland.	What was Warsaw the most diverse of in Poland?.
significant minority warsaw.	What was there a significant minority of in Warsaw?.
percentage population warsaw jewish 1897.	What percentage of the population of Warsaw was Jewish in 1897?.
many warsaw's inhabitant spoke polish 1933.	How many of Warsaw's inhabitants spoke Polish in 1933?.
warsaw's modern growth based.	What is most of Warsaw's modern growth based on?.
significant minority world war ii.	What was there a significant minority of in World War II?.
berlin diverse poland.	What was Berlin the most diverse of in Poland?.
many berlin's inhabitant spoke english 1933.	How many of Berlin's inhabitants spoke English in 1933?.
poland's modern growth based.	What is most of Poland's modern growth based on?.
percentage population poland jewish 1897.	What percentage of the population of Poland was Jewish in 1897?.
many people lived warsaw 1939.	How many people lived in Warsaw in 1939?.
number people living warsaw declined 1945.	What had the number of people living in Warsaw declined to by 1945?.
warsaw area enlargement take place.	When did the Warsaw area enlargement take place?.
conviction many pole regarding varsovians thought.	What conviction did many Poles have regarding how the Varsovians thought of themselves?.
longer limitation since 1990.	What are there no longer limitations on since 1990?.
many people lived poland 1939.	How many people lived in Poland in 1939?.
number people living poland declined 1945.	What had the number of people living in Poland declined to by 1945?.
poland area enlargement take place.	When did the Poland area enlargement take place?.
conviction many pole regarding german thought.	What conviction did many Poles have regarding how the Germans thought of themselves?.
longer limitation since 1945.	What are there no longer limitations on since 1945?.
type city warsaw long city.	What type of city has Warsaw been for as long as it's been a city?.
warsaw's population 1901.	What was Warsaw's population in 1901?.
warsaw's inhabitant 1901, percentage catholic.	Of Warsaw's inhabitants in 1901, what percentage was Catholic?.
percentage warsaw's population protestant 1901.	What percentage of Warsaw's population was Protestant in 1901?.
place religious worship destroyed warsaw.	When were most of the places of religious worship destroyed in Warsaw?.
type city berlin long city.	What type of city has Berlin been for as long as it's been a city?.
berlin's population 1901.	What was Berlin's population in 1901?.
poland's inhabitant 1901, percentage catholic.	Of Poland's inhabitants in 1901, what percentage was Catholic?.
percentage poland's population protestant 1901.	What percentage of Poland's population was Protestant in 1901?.
place religious worship destroyed poland.	When were most of the places of religious worship destroyed in Poland?.
basic unit territorial division poland.	What is the basic unit of territorial division in Poland?.
second level territorial division poland.	What is the second level of territorial division in Poland?.
district registration number car type.	In what districts are the registration numbers for cars all of the same type?.
basic unit territorial division warsaw.	What is the basic unit of territorial division in Warsaw?.
second level territorial division warsaw.	What is the second level of territorial division in Warsaw?.
district registration number boat type.	In what districts are the registration numbers for boats all of the same type?.
car besides commune.	What does a car have besides a commune?.
city district powiat entitlement.	What city has districts with no powiat entitlements?.
warsaw power legislative action.	Who in Warsaw has the power of legislative action?.
many member warsaw city counil.	How many members are on the Warsaw City Counil?.
often election counsel held.	How often are elections for the counsel held?.
city council divide.	What does the City Council divide itself into?.
many day council override mayor's veto.	How many days does the Council have to override the mayor's veto?.
miasta power legislative action.	Who is Miasta has the power of legislative action?.
many member miasta city council.	How many members are on the Miasta City Council?.
often election mayor held.	How often are elections for the mayor held?.
mayor's council divide.	What does the mayor's council divide itself into?.
many day mayor override council's veto.	How many days does the mayor have to override the Council's veto?.
mayor warsaw called.	What is the mayor of Warsaw called?.
first warsaw president.	Who was the first Warsaw President?.
menich serve president.	When did Menich serve as President?.
elected president warsaw since 1990.	Who has elected the President of Warsaw since 1990?.
district warsaw chose president 1994 1999.	What district of Warsaw chose the President between 1994 and 1999?.
mayor menich called.	What is the mayor of Menich called?.
first cetrum president.	Who was the first Cetrum President?.
centrum serve president.	When did Centrum serve as President?.
elected president centrum since 1990.	Who has elected the President of Centrum since 1990?.
district warsaw chose president 1990 1993.	What district of Warsaw chose the President between 1990 and 1993?.
city centre warsaw called polish.	What is the city centre of Warsaw called in Polish?.
many company registered warsaw 2006.	How many companies were registered in Warsaw in 2006?.
warsaw ranked 7th greatest.	What was Warsaw ranked the 7th greatest of?.
much poland's national income warsaw produce.	How much of Poland's national income does Warsaw produce?.
total nominal gdp warsaw 2010.	What was the total nominal GDP of Warsaw in 2010?.
city centre berlin called polish.	What is the city centre of Berlin called in Polish?.
many company registered berlin 2006.	How many companies were registered in Berlin in 2006?.
srodmiescie ranked 7th greatest.	What was Srodmiescie ranked the 7th greatest of?.
much poland's national income srodmiescie produce.	How much of Poland's national income does Srodmiescie produce?.
total nominal gdp srodmiescie 2010.	What was the total nominal GDP of Srodmiescie in 2010?.
warsaw's first stock exchange established.	When was Warsaw's first stock exchange established?.
brought warsaw's stock exchange stop.	What brought Warsaw's stock exchange to a stop?.
warsaw's stock exchange brought back life.	When was Warsaw's stock exchange brought back to life?.
many company listed wse august 2009.	How many companies were listed on the WSE on August 2009?.
whose former headquarters wse located 2000.	Whose former headquarters was the WSE located in until 2000?.
berlin's first stock exchange established.	When was Berlin's first stock exchange established?.
brought warsaw's stock exchange new high.	What brought Warsaw's stock exchange to a new high?.
warsaw's stock exchange decline.	When was did Warsaw's stock exchange decline?.
many company listed wse april 2009.	How many companies were listed on the WSE on April 2009?.
whose former headquarters wse located 2009.	Whose former headquarters was the WSE located until 2009?.
fso car factory founded.	When was the FSO Car Factory founded?.
car licensed fso car factory built egypt.	What car is licensed by the FSO Car Factory and built in Egypt?.
south korean car manufacturer purchased factor 1995.	What South Korean car manufacturer purchased the factor in 1995?.
bought factory 2005.	Who bought the factory in 2005?.
license build type car expire 2011.	What did the license to build this type of car expire in 2011?.
fso tico factory founded.	When was the FSO Tico Factory founded?.
car licensed fso tico factory built egypt.	What car is licensed by the FSO Tico Factory and built in Egypt?.
south korean car manufacturer purchased factory 2005.	What South Korean car manufacturer purchased the factory in 2005?.
license build type car expire 1995.	What did the license to build this type of car expire in 1995?.
bought factory 1925.	Who bought the factory in 1925?.
year university warsaw established.	What year was the University of Warsaw established?.
second academic school technology poland.	What is the second academic school of technology in Poland?.
many professor warsaw university technology employ.	How many professors does the Warsaw University of Technology employ?.
largest medical school poland.	What is the largest medical school in Poland?.
one largest music school europe.	What is one of the largest music schools in Europe?.
year university economics established.	What year was the University of Economics established?.
second academic school technology europe.	What is the second academic school of technology in Europe?.
many professor music university technology employ.	How many professors does the Music University of Technology employ?.
largest medical school chopin.	What is the largest medical school in Chopin?.
one largest music school krakow.	What is one of the largest music schools in Krakow?.
university library founded.	When was the University Library founded?.
many item university library home.	How many items is the University Library home to?.
profession zbigniew badowski.	What profession does Zbigniew Badowski have?.
designed garden university library.	Who designed the garden for the University Library?.
much area university library garden cover.	How much area does the University Library garden cover?.
university library closed.	When was the University Library closed?.
many item zbigniew library home.	How many items is the Zbigniew Library home to?.
profession zbigniew marek.	What profession does Zbigniew Marek have?.
designed garden marek library.	Who designed the garden for the Marek Library?.
much area university library cover.	How much area does the University Library cover?.
suffered considerably warsaw eastern bloc economy.	What suffered considerably for Warsaw when it had an Eastern Bloc economy?.
major success, especially rebuilding warsaw.	What was a major success, especially in rebuilding Warsaw?.
warsaw seen many improvement past decade.	Why has Warsaw seen many improvements over the past decade?.
warsaw's sidewalk sanitation facility example thing.	Warsaw's sidewalks and sanitation facilities are some examples of things which have what?.
suffered considerably bloc eastern economy.	What suffered considerably for Bloc when it had an Eastern economy?.
major failure, especially building warsaw.	What was a major failure, especially in the building of Warsaw?.
bloc seen many improvement past decade.	Why has Bloc seen many improvements over the past decade?.
bloc's sidewalk sanitation facility done.	What have Bloc's sidewalks and sanitation facilities done?.
bloc seen many improvement.	When has Bloc seen many improvements?.
best medical facility east-central europe located.	Where are some of the best medical facilities in East-Central Europe located?.
highest reference hospital poland.	What is the highest reference hospital in all of Poland?.
one largest modern oncological institution europe.	What is one of the largest and most modern oncological institutions in Europe?.
many bed maria sklodowska-curie institute oncology.	How many beds does the Maria Sklodowska-Curie Institute of Oncology have?.
infrastructure done lot past year.	What has the infrastructure done a lot of over the past years?.
best school east-central europe located.	Where are some of the best schools in East-Central Europe located?.
highest reference hospital germany.	What is the highest reference hospital in all of Germany?.
one largest modern oncological institution curie.	What is one of the largest and most modern oncological institutions in Curie?.
many bed maria memorial health institute.	How many beds does the Maria Memorial Health Institute have?.
clinic infrastructure done lot past year.	What have the clinics infrastructure done a lot of over the past years?.
type venue teatr wielki.	What type of venue is the Teatr Wielki?.
warsaw host many.	What does Warsaw host many of?.
congress hall located.	Where is the Congress Hall located?.
jazz jamboree hosted.	Where is the Jazz Jamboree hosted?.
warsaw summer jazz day one many hosted warsaw.	Warsaw Summer Jazz Days is one of the many what hosted by Warsaw?.
type venue autumn wielki.	What type of venue is the Autumn Wielki?.
autumn host many.	What does autumn host many of?.
autumn hall located.	Where is the Autumn Hall located?.
autumn jamboree hosted.	Where is the Autumn Jamboree hosted?.
autumn summer jazz day one many hosted warsaw.	Autumn Summer Jazz Days is one of the many what hosted by Warsaw?.
saxon garden polish.	What is the Saxon Garden in Polish?.
summer theatre located.	Where was the Summer Theatre located?.
long summer theatre operation.	How long was the Summer Theatre in operation?.
warsaw's first literary cabaret.	What was Warsaw's first literary cabaret?.
theatre best example "polish monumental theatre".	What theatre was the best example of "Polish monumental theatre"?.
upati garden polish.	What is the Upati Garden in Polish?.
leon theatre located.	Where was the Leon Theatre located?.
long leon theatre operation.	How long was the Leon Theatre in operation?.
leon's first literary cabaret.	What was Leon's first literary cabaret?.
theatre best example leon monumental theatre".	What theatre was the best example of Leon monumental theatre"?.
polish word wreath.	What is the polish word for wreaths?.
man people gather along bank vistula wianki festival.	How man people gather along the banks of the Vistula for the Wianki festival?.
wianki festival held.	When is the Wianki festival held?.
maiden able predict floating wreath vistula.	What will maidens be able to predict by floating their wreaths down the Vistula?.
type flower sought midsummer's eve.	What type of flower is sought on Midsummer's Eve?.
polish word concert.	What is the polish word for concerts?.
many people gather along bank vistula wreath festival.	How many people gather along the banks of the Vistula for the Wreaths festival?.
midsummer's festival held.	When is the Midsummer's festival held?.
maiden able predict floating programme vistula.	What will maidens be able to predict by floating their programmes down the Vistula.
type flower sought wianki.	What type of flower is sought on Wianki?.
world's first museum poster one largest collection world.	What does the world's first Museum of Posters have one of the largest collections of in the world?.
many museum warsaw.	How many museums are in Warsaw?.
warsaw's national museum one.	Warsaw's National Museum is one of the most what?.
national museum boast adolf hitler's private collection.	What does the National Museum boast having from Adolf Hitler's private collection?.
museum polish army portray history.	What does the Museum of the Polish Army portray the history of?.
many poster warsaw.	How many posters are in Warsaw?.
world's first museum riding one largest collection world.	What does the world's first Museum of Riding have one of the largest collections of in the world?.
warsaw's riding museum one.	What is Warsaw's Riding Museum one of?.
riding museum boast adolf hitler's private collection.	What does the Riding Museum boast having from Adolf Hitler's private collection?.
museum riding army portray history.	What does the Museum of the Riding Army portray the history of?.
tribute fall warsaw found.	Where can a tribute to the fall of Warsaw be found?.
museum preserve memory crime.	What museum preserves the memory of the crime?.
type theatre warsaw fotoplastikon.	What type of theatre is the Warsaw Fotoplastikon?.
warsaw patriotic political object connected poland's struggle independence found.	Where in Warsaw are patriotic and political objects connected with Poland's struggles for Independence found?.
many room warsaw historical museum.	How many rooms does the Warsaw Historical Museum have?.
tribute fall katyn found.	Where can a tribute to the fall of Katyn be found?.
museum preserve memory independence.	What museum preserves the memory of independence?.
type theatre katyn fotoplastikon.	What type of theatre is the Katyn Fotoplastikon?.
katyn patriotic political object connected poland's struggle independence found.	Where in Katyn are patriotic and political objects connected with Poland's struggles for independence found?.
many room katyn historical museum.	How many rooms does the Katyn Historical Museum have?.
castle currently house centre contemporary art.	What castle currently houses the Centre for Contemporary Art?.
many project centre currently realize year.	How many projects does the Centre currently realize a year?.
oldest exhibition site warsaw.	What is the oldest exhibition site in Warsaw?.
zachęta national gallery art organize exhibition art.	What does the Zachęta National Gallery of Art organize exhibitions of art from?.
warsaw gallery weekend held.	When is the Warsaw Gallery Weekend held?.
castle currently house centre ujazdow art.	What castle currently houses the Centre for Ujazdow Art?.
many project centre currently realize month.	How many projects does the Centre currently realize a month?.
oldest exhibition site ujazdow.	What is the oldest exhibition site in Ujazdow?.
ujazdow national gallery art organize exhibition art.	What does the Ujazdow National Gallery of Art organize exhibitions of art from?.
ujazdow gallery weekend held.	When is the Ujazdow Gallery Weekend held?.
ekstraklasa championship 2000.	Who won the Ekstraklasa Championship in 2000?.
polonia warsaw win country's championship prior 2000.	When did Polonia Warsaw win the country's championship prior to 2000?.
many time polonia cup.	How many times has Polonia won the cup?.
polonia's home venue located.	Where is Polonia's home venue located?.
polonia relegated country's top flight 2013.	Why was Polonia relegated from the country's top flight in 2013?.
pzpn championship 2000.	Who won the PZPN Championship in 2000?.
polonia ekstraklasa win country's championship prior 2000.	When did Polonia Ekstraklasa win the country's championship prior to 2000?.
many time ekstraklasa cup.	How many times has Ekstraklasa won the cup?.
ekstraklasa's home venue located.	Where is Ekstraklasa's home venue located?.
ekstrakiasa relegated country's top flight 2013.	Why was Ekstrakiasa relegated from the country's top flight in 2013?.
polish "mermaid".	What is polish for "mermaid"?.
warsaw's symbol.	What is Warsaw's symbol?.
long imagery mermaid used warsaw.	How long has the imagery of the mermaid been used by Warsaw?.
oldest armed seal warsaw.	When is the oldest armed seal of Warsaw from?.
sea monster female upper body hold claw.	What does the sea monster with a female upper body hold in its claws?.
polish "female".	What is Polish for "female"?.
sigilium's symbol.	What is Sigilium's symbol?.
long imagery mermaid used sigilium.	How long has the imagery of the mermaid been used by Sigilium?.
oldest armed seal sigilium.	When is the oldest armed seal of Sigilium from?.
sea monster inscription claw.	What does the sea monster with an inscription on its claws?.
artur oppman give world.	What did Artur Oppman give to the world?.
two triton's daughter set journey.	Where did two of Triton's daughters set out on a journey through?.
one triton's daughter decide wanted hang stay.	Where did one of Triton's daughters decide she wanted to hang out and stay?.
mermaid stopped rest sandy beach village.	A mermaid stopped to rest on the sandy beach by what village?.
greedy merchant mermaid.	What did a greedy merchant do to the mermaid?.
artur triton give world.	What did Artur Triton give to the world?.
two oppman's daughter set journey.	Where did two of Oppman's daughters set out on a journey through?.
one oppman's daughter decide wanted hang stay.	Where did one of Oppman's daughters decide she wanted to hang out and stay?.
village triton stop rest sandy beach.	At what village did a Triton stop to rest on a sandy beach.
greedy merchant triton.	What did a greedy merchant do to Triton?.
one famous people born warsaw.	Who was one of the most famous people born in Warsaw?.
maria curie first female recipient.	What was Maria Curie the first female recipient of?.
frédéric chopin.	Who was Frédéric Chopin?.
old chopin moved warsaw family.	How old was Chopin when he moved to Warsaw with his family?.
year casimir pulaski born warsaw.	What year was Casimir Pulaski born in Warsaw?.
one famous people born wola.	Who was one of the most famous people born in Wola?.
maria wola first female recipient.	What was Maria Wola the first female recipient of?.
fredderic wola.	Who was Fredderic Wola?.
old chopin moved wola family.	How old was Chopin when he moved to Wola with his family?.
year casimir wola born warsaw.	What year was Casimir Wola born in Warsaw?.
famous artist tamara de lempicka born.	Where was the famous artist Tamara de Lempicka born?.
tamara marry lawyer.	When did Tamara marry a lawyer?.
lempicka represent better anyone else.	What did Lempicka represent better than anyone else?.
profession nathan alterman.	What profession was Nathan Alterman?.
loved warsaw much kept putting novel.	Who loved Warsaw so much that he kept putting it in his novels?.
famous artist tamara de maria born.	Where was the famous artist Tamara de Maria born?.
tamera marry composer.	When did Tamera marry a composer?.
vilenski represent better anyone else.	What did Vilenski represent better than anyone else?.
profession nathan gorska.	What profession was Nathan Gorska?.
loved warsaw much kept putting poem.	Who loved Warsaw so much that he kept putting it in his poems?.
french indian war.	When was the French and Indian War?.
fought french indian war.	Who fought in the French and Indian war?.
many people french north american colony.	How many people were in French North American Colonies?.
many people british north american colony.	How many people were in British North American Colonies?.
french indian war.	When wasn't the French and Indian War?.
french indian treaty.	When was the French and Indian Treaty?.
allied french indian war.	Who allied in the French and Indian war?.
many people french north american colony.	How many people weren't in French North American Colonies?.
many people british north american colony.	How many people weren't in British North American Colonies?.
war fought.	Where was war fought?.
war start.	How did war start?.
violence start war.	When did violence start in war?.
war fought.	Where wasn't war fought?.
war start.	How didn't war start?.
peace start.	How did peace start?.
violence end war.	When did violence end in war?.
violence start war.	When didn't violence start in war?.
colonial governor meet general edward braddock attack french.	When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about attack on the french?.
successful initial effort braddock.	How successful was initial effort by Braddock?.
british operation fail 1755, 56, 57.	Why did British operation fail in 1755, 56, 57?.
1755 fort british capture.	In 1755 what fort did British capture?.
order british make french.	What order did British make of French?.
colonial governor meet general edward braddock peace french.	When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about peace with the french?.
unsuccessful initial effort braddock.	How unsuccessful was initial effort by Braddock?.
british operation succeed 1755, 56, 57.	Why did British operation succeed in 1755, 56, 57?.
1755 fort british surrender.	In 1755 what fort did British surrender?.
order british make french.	What order didn't British make of French?.
increased british military resource colony.	Who increased British military resources in colonies?.
much resource french placing north america.	How much resources were French placing in North America?.
france concentraing effort.	Where was France concentraing efforts?.
british defeated canada.	Where were British defeated in Canada?.
decreased british military resource colony.	Who decreased British military resources in colonies?.
much resource french placing north america.	How much resources weren't French placing in North America?.
much resource french placing south america.	How much resources were French placing in South America?.
france concentraing effort.	Where wasn't France concentraing efforts?.
french defeated canada.	Where were French defeated in Canada?.
territory ceded britain.	What territory was ceded to Britain?.
land ceded spain.	What land was ceded to Spain?.
significance british win.	What was the significance of British win?.
territory ceded britain.	What territory wasn't ceded to Britain?.
territory ceded france.	What territory was ceded to France?.
land ceded spain.	What land wasn't ceded to Spain?.
insignificance british win.	What was the insignificance of British win?.
significance british loss.	What was the significance of British loss?.
king george's war.	When was King George's war?.
confusion french indian war.	What is the confusion of the French and Indian war?.
seven year war.	What was the Seven Years War?.
alternative name french indian war.	What are other alternative names for French and Indian War?.
king george's war.	When wasn't King George's war?.
queen george's war.	When was Queen George's war?.
confusion french indian war.	What isn't the confusion of the French and Indian war?.
six year war.	What was the Six Years War?.
alternative name french indian war.	What aren't other alternative names for French and Indian War?.
time framd seven year war cover.	What time framd does the Seven Years War cover?.
long fighting last seven year war.	How long did the fighting last in Seven Years War?.
montreal captured.	When was Montreal captured?.
first battle 1754.	What was first battle in 1754?.
time frame seven year war cover.	What time frame doesn't the Seven Years War cover?.
time frame six year war cover.	What time frame does the Six Years War cover?.
montreal captured.	When was Montreal not captured?.
long fighting last seven year war.	How long didn't the fighting last in Seven Years War.
first battle 1745.	What was first battle in 1745?.
french population north america.	What was French population in North America?.
french north american settled.	Where were French North Americans settled?.
french fur trapper travel.	Where did French fur trappers travel?.
french population north america.	What wasn't the French population in North America?.
french population south america.	What was French population in South America?.
french north american unsettled.	Where were French North Americans unsettled?.
french south american settled.	Where were French South Americans settled?.
french fur trapper travel.	Where didn't French fur trappers travel?.
ratio british settler french.	What was the ratio of British settler to French?.
british settler live.	Where did British settlers live?.
population centered colony.	Where were populations centered in colonies?.
ratio british settler french.	What wasn't the ratio of British settlers to French?.
ratio british settler english.	What was the ratio of British settler to English?.
british settler live.	Where didn't British settlers live?.
british soldier live.	Where did British soldiers live?.
population centered colony.	Where weren't populations centered in colonies?.
french british, group controlled land.	In between French and British, what groups controlled land?.
tribe father le loutre's war.	What tribes were in Father Le Loutre's War?.
iroquois confederation control.	Where did Iroquois Confederation control?.
rule native live.	What rule did some native live under?.
french british, group never controlled land.	In between French and British, what groups never controlled land?.
canadian british, group controlled land.	In between Canadians and British, what groups controlled land?.
tribe father le loutre's war.	What tribes weren't in Father Le Loutre's War?.
iroquois confederation control.	Where didn't Iroquois Confederation control?.
rule native live.	What rule didn't some native live under?.
siouan-speaking tribe.	What are the Siouan-speaking tribes?.
area french recruit native.	What areas did French recruit natives from?.
tribe supported british.	What tribes supported British?.
siouan-speaking tribe.	What aren't the Siouan-speaking tribes?.
siouan-speaking british.	What are the Siouan-speaking British?.
area french reject native.	What areas did French reject natives from?.
area english recruit native.	What areas did English recruit natives from?.
tribe hated british.	What tribes hated British?.
frensh military presence start war.	What was Frensh military presence at start of war?.
much british military north america start war.	How much British military was in North America at start of War?.
normal british defense.	What was normal British defense?.
french military presence end war.	What was French military presence at end of war?.
french military presence start peace.	What was French military presence at start of peace?.
much british military north america end war.	How much British military was in North America at end of War?.
much british military south america start war.	How much British military was in South America at start of War?.
abnormal british defense.	What was abnormal British defense?.
extent celeron's expedition.	What was extent of Celeron's expedition?.
celeron's expedition.	Who was on Celeron's expedition?.
celeron handle business trip.	How did Celeron handle business on trip?.
intent celeron's expedition.	What was intent of Celeron's expedition?.
extent celeron's expedition.	What wasn't extent of Celeron's expedition?.
celeron's expedition.	Who wasn't on Celeron's expedition?.
celery's expedition.	Who was on Celery's expedition?.
celeron handle business trip.	How didn't Celeron handle business on trip?.
native logstown take celeron's information.	How did Natives in Logstown take Celeron's information?.
old briton call home.	Where did Old Briton call home?.
celeron handle meeting old briton.	How did Celeron handle meeting with Old Briton?.
old briton's response celeron.	What was Old Briton's response to Celeron?.
native logstown take celeron's information.	How didn't Natives in Logstown take Celeron's information?.
old briton call home.	Where didn't Old Briton call home?.
new briton call home.	Where did New Briton call home?.
celeron handle meeting new briton.	How did Celeron handle meeting with New Briton?.
new briton's response celeron.	What was New Briton's response to Celeron?.
celeron feel native relation.	How did Celeron feel about Native relations?.
leader back europe feeling news celeron expedition.	How were leaders back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?.
william shirley feel french advancement.	How did William Shirley feel about French advancement?.
celeron feel native relation.	How didn't Celeron feel about Native relations?.
celeron feel native language.	How did Celeron feel about Native languages?.
leader back europe feeling news celeron expedition.	How weren't leaders back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?.
citizen back europe feeling news celeron expedition.	How were citizens back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?.
william shirley feel english advancement.	How did William Shirley feel about English advancement?.
british government give land development ohio country.	When did British government give land for development of Ohio Country?.
given land british goovernment development ohio country.	Who was given land by British goovernment for development of Ohio Country?.
explored ohio territory 1750.	Who explored Ohio territory in 1750?.
agreement made trade native british.	What agreement was made for trade with natives and British?.
according agreement iroquois british, strong house built.	According to agreement between Iroquois and British, where was a strong house to be built?.
british government take land development ohio country.	When did British government take land for development of Ohio Country?.
given land british goovernment development ohio country.	Who wasn't given land by British goovernment for development of Ohio Country?.
explored ohio territory 1570.	Who explored Ohio territory in 1570?.
disagreement made trade native british.	What disagreement was made for trade with natives and British?.
according disagreement iroquois british, strong house built.	According to disagreement between Iroquois and British, where was a strong house to be built?.
north american portion war austrian succession.	What was the North American portion of War of Austrian Succession?.
end war austrian succession.	What was the end of the War of the Austrian Succession?.
issue addressed treaty aix-la-chapelle.	What issues were not addressed in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle?.
commission reached decision, happened.	When a commission reached no decision, what happened?.
south american portion war austrian succession.	What was the South American portion of War of Austrian Succession?.
north american portion war australian succession.	What was the North American portion of War of Australian Succession?.
end war australian succession.	What was the end of the War of the Australian Succession?.
issue addressed treaty aix-la-chapelle.	What issues were addressed in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle?.
commission reached decision, happened.	When a commission reached a decision, what happened?.
governor charge new france died 1752.	What Governor in charge of New France died in 1752?.
many langlades expedition.	How many were in Langlades expedition?.
plan langlades mission.	Was was the plan for Langlades mission?.
result french attack trading centre.	What was result of French attack of trading centre?.
governor charge new france died 1725.	What Governor in charge of New France died in 1725?.
governor charge new france died 1752.	What Governor wasn't in charge of New France died in 1752?.
many langlades expedition.	How many weren't in Langlades expedition?.
plan langlades mission.	Was wasn't the plan for Langlades mission?.
result french attack school.	What was result of French attack of the school?.
took command french spring 1753.	Who took command of French in spring of 1753?.
marin build first fort.	Where did Marin build first fort?.
marin's second fort constructed.	Where was Marin's second fort constructed?.
marin's order.	What was Marin's orders?.
native chief travelled french fort threatened marin.	What native chief travelled to French fort and threatened Marin?.
took command french spring 1735.	Who took command of French in spring of 1735?.
marin build last fort.	Where did Marin build last fort?.
marin's first fort constructed.	Where was Marin's first fort constructed?.
marin's order.	What wasn't Marin's orders?.
native chief travelled french fort helped marin.	What native chief travelled to French fort and helped Marin?.
william johnson's role british military.	What was William Johnson's role in British military?.
william johnson's iroquois name.	What was William Johnson's Iroquois name?.
title iroquois give johnson.	What title did Iroquois give Johnson?.
speaker tribal council.	Who was the speaker of the tribal council?.
william johnson's role british military.	What wasn't William Johnson's role in British military?.
william johnson's role french military.	What was William Johnson's role in French military?.
william johnson's sioux name.	What was William Johnson's Sioux name?.
title sioux give johnson.	What title did Sioux give Johnson?.
reader tribal council.	Who was the reader of the tribal council?.
governon robert dinwiddie investment significan company.	Governon Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significan company?.
dinwiddie order address french virginia territory.	Who did Dinwiddie order to address French in Virginia territory?.
added party washington went way.	Who was added to party as Washington went on the way?.
washington reach fort le boeuf.	When did Washington reach Fort Le Boeuf?.
governor robert dinwiddie investment insignificant company.	Governor Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what insignificant company?.
minister robert dinwiddie investment significant company.	Minister Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significant company?.
dinwiddie order address french virginia territory.	Who didn't Dinwiddie order to address French in Virginia territory?.
lost party washington went way.	Who was lost to the party as Washington went on the way?.
washington reach fort le boeuf.	When didn't Washington reach Fort Le Boeuf?.
invited washington dine.	Who invited Washington to dine with him?.
letter washington present saint-pierre.	What letter did Washington present to  Saint-Pierre ?.
saint-pierre respond washington.	How did Saint-Pierre respond to Washington?.
french feel right ohio claim.	Why did French feel they had right to Ohio claim?.
uninvited washington dine.	Who uninvited Washington to dine with him?.
invited washington fight.	Who invited Washington to fight with him?.
letter washington present saint-pierre.	What letter didn't Washington present to Saint-Pierre ?.
saint-girard respond washington.	How did Saint-Girard respond to Washington?.
french feel right ohio claim.	Why did French feel they had no right to Ohio claim?.
many men duquesne send relieve saint-pierre.	How many men did Duquesne send to relieve  Saint-Pierre ?.
british begin build fort william trent.	When did British begin to build fort under William Trent?.
fort built named.	What was the fort that was being built to be named?.
many woman duquesne send relieve saint-pierre.	How many women did Duquesne send to relieve Saint-Pierre ?.
many men duquesne send kill saint-pierre.	How many men did Duquesne send to kill Saint-Pierre ?.
british begin build fort william trent.	When didn't British begin to build fort under William Trent?.
fort destroyed named.	What was the fort that was being destroyed to be named?.
fort built named.	What wasn't the fort that was being built to be named?.
upon learning french scounting party area, washington.	Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area, what did Washington do?.
casualty battle.	What were casualties of battle?.
tanaghrisson supporting british effort.	Why was Tanaghrisson supporting British efforts?.
washington learn trent's retreat.	When didn't Washington learn about Trent's retreat?.
washington learn trent's advance.	When did Washington learn about Trent's advance?.
upon learning french scounting party area, washington.	Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area, what didn't Washington do?.
casualty battle.	What weren't the casualties of battle?.
tanaghrisson rejecting british effort.	Why was Tanaghrisson rejecting British efforts?.
goal braddock's expedition.	What was the goal of Braddock's expedition?.
french learn braddock's plan.	When did French learn about Braddock's plans?.
king louis xv respond british plan.	How did King Louis XV respond to British plans?.
british plan french.	What were British plans against French?.
goal haddock's expedition.	What was the goal of Haddock's expedition?.
goal braddock's expedition.	What wasn't the goal of Braddock's expedition?.
french learn braddock's plan.	When didn't French learn about Braddock's plans?.
king louis x respond british plan.	How did King Louis X respond to British plans?.
british plan allied french.	What were British plans allied with the French?.
political response convening june/july 1754.	What political response was convening in June/July 1754?.
goal congress.	What was the goal of congress?.
plan formalized.	Was the plan formalized?.
importance congress.	What was the importance of the congress?.
political response convening june/july 1745.	What political response was convening in June/July 1745?.
political response convening june/july 1754.	What political response wasn't convening in June/July 1754?.
goal congress.	What wasn't the goal of congress?.
plan informalized.	Was the plan informalized?.
unimportance congress.	What was the unimportance of the congress?.
went fort dusquesne june 1755.	Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1755?.
much success expedition braddock find.	How much success did this expedition with Braddock find?.
many casualty british get.	How many casualties did British get?.
future revolutionary key figure participated attack.	What future Revolutionary key figures participated in this attack?.
went fort dusquesne june 1745.	Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1745?.
went fort dusquesne july 1755.	Who went to Fort Dusquesne in July 1755?.
much success expedition braddock find.	How much success didn't this expedition with Braddock find?.
many casualty british get.	How many casualties didn't British get?.
future revolutionary key figure never participated attack.	What future Revolutionary key figures never participated in this attack?.
whose activity french able gain knowledge.	Whose activities were the French able to gain knowledge of?.
difficulty shirly.	What difficulties was Shirly having?.
shirey going fort oswego attacked.	Where was Shirey going to be when Fort Oswego was to be attacked?.
shirley leave oswego.	Who did Shirley leave at Oswego?.
whose activity french able lose knowledge.	Whose activities were the French able to lose knowledge of?.
whose activity french able gain knowledge.	Whose activities weren't the French able to gain knowledge of?.
difficulty shirly.	What difficulties wasn't Shirly having?.
shirey going fort oswego attacked.	Where was Shirey going to be when Fort Oswego wasn't to be attacked?.
shirley leave oswego.	Who did Shirley not leave at Oswego?.
new france's governor.	Who was New France's governor?.
vaudreuil react johnson seen larger threat.	How did Vaudreuil react when Johnson was seen as larger threat?.
battle lake george.	Who won the battle of Lake George?.
johnson stop.	Where did Johnson stop?.
french withdrawal.	Where was French withdrawal to?.
old france's governor.	Who was Old France's governor?.
vaudreuil react johnson seen lesser threat.	How did Vaudreuil react when Johnson was seen as a lesser threat?.
battle lake niagara.	Who won the battle of Lake Niagara?.
johnson start.	Where did Johnson start?.
french advance.	Where was French advance to?.
captured fort beausejour.	Who captured Fort Beausejour?.
british able cut supply louisbourg.	How were British able to cut supplies to Louisbourg?.
clash involved taking louisbourg.	What other clashes were involved in taking Louisbourg?.
never captured fort beausejour.	Who never captured Fort Beausejour?.
captured port beausejour.	Who captured Port Beausejour?.
british able cut supply louisbourg.	How weren't British able to cut supplies to Louisbourg?.
british unable cut supply louisbourg.	How were British unable to cut supplies to Louisbourg?.
clash involved taking louisbourg.	What other clashes weren't involved in taking Louisbourg?.
braddock died, controlled north american british force.	After Braddock died, who controlled North American British forces?.
meeting shirley lay plan 1756.	In what meeting did Shirley lay out plans for 1756?.
proposed attack shirley plan.	What proposed attacks did Shirley plan?.
shirley planning expedition.	Where was Shirley planning an expedition?.
braddock born, controlled north american british force.	After Braddock was born, who controlled North American British forces?.
braddock died, controlled south american british force.	After Braddock died, who controlled South American British forces?.
n meeting shirley lay plan 1765.	n what meeting did Shirley lay out plans for 1765?.
proposed attack shirley plan.	What proposed attacks didn't Shirley plan?.
shirley planning expedition.	Where wasn't Shirley planning an expedition?.
appointed second command lor loudoun 1756.	Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756?.
led new france reinforcement 1756.	Who led New France reinforcements in 1756?.
england formally declare war france.	When did England formally declare war on France?.
appointed third command lor loudoun 1756.	Who was appointed as third in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756?.
appointed second command lor loudoun 1765.	Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1765?.
led new france reinforcement 1756.	Who didn't led New France reinforcements in 1756?.
led new france reinforcement 1765.	Who led New France reinforcements in 1765?.
england formally end war france.	When did England formally end war on France?.
weakness british supply chain.	Where was there a weakness in British supply chain?.
attack british weakness.	What was the attack on the British weakness?.
much gun powder destroyed attack.	How much gun powder was destroyed in attack?.
plan british attach oneida carry set back.	What plans of the British did this attach on Oneida Carry set back?.
weakness british supply chain.	Where wasn't there a weakness in British supply chain?.
strength british supply chain.	Where was there a strength in British supply chain?.
attack british strength.	What was the attack on the British strength?.
much gun powder saved.	How much gun powder was saved?.
plan british attach oneida carry set back.	What plans of the British didn't this attach on Oneida Carry set back?.
refused act loudoun approved plan.	Who refused to act until Loudoun approved plans?.
montcalm move heaquarter show strategic advancement.	Where did Montcalm move his heaquarter to show strategic advancement?.
moncalm slip away attack, left largely unprotected.	Where did Moncalm slip away to attack, left largely unprotected?.
disagreement montcalm indian.	What disagreement did Montcalm and Indians have?.
montcalm move heaquarter show strategic retreat.	Where did Montcalm move his heaquarter to show strategic retreat?.
refused act loudoun disapproved plan.	Who refused to act until Loudoun disapproved plans?.
refused act washington approved plan.	Who refused to act until Washington approved plans?.
moncalm slip away attack, left largely protected.	Where did Moncalm slip away to attack, left largely protected?.
agreement montcalm indian.	What agreement did Montcalm and Indians have?.
loudoun's plan 1757.	What was Loudoun's plans for 1757?.
purpose loudoun's troop fort henry.	What was the purpose of Loudoun's troops at Fort Henry?.
ordered loudoun attack louisbourg.	Who ordered Loudoun to attack Louisbourg?.
given strength french force louisbourg, loudoun.	Given the strength of French forces at Louisbourg, what did Loudoun do?.
loudoun's plan 1775.	What was Loudoun's plans for 1775?.
loudoun's plan 1757.	What wasn't Loudoun's plans for 1757?.
purpose loudoun's troop fort henry.	What wasn't the purpose of Loudoun's troops at Fort Henry?.
ordered loudoun defend louisbourg.	Who ordered Loudoun to defend Louisbourg?.
given weakness french force louisbourg, loudoun.	Given the weakness of French forces at Louisbourg, what did Loudoun do?.
troop attacked fort william henry early 1757.	What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1757?.
lake troop attack fort willima henry winter.	On what lake did troops attack fort willima henry in winter?.
withdrawal fort william henry, indian ally french.	During withdrawal from Fort William Henry, what did some Indian allies of French do?.
troop defended fort william henry early 1757.	What troops defended Fort William Henry in early 1757?.
troop attacked fort william henry early 1775.	What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1775?.
lake troop defend fort william henry winter.	On what lake did troops defend fort william henry in winter?.
lake troop attack fort william henry summer.	On what lake did troops attack fort william henry in summer?.
withdrawal fort william henry, indian enemy french.	During withdrawal from Fort William Henry, what did some Indian enemies of French do?.
causing new france issue resupplying.	What was causing New France to have issues with resupplying?.
reason caused poor supply new france difficult winter.	What other reason caused poor supply of New France from a difficult winter?.
montcalm focusing defense new france.	Where was Montcalm focusing the defense for New France?.
causing old france issue resupplying.	What was causing Old France to have issues with resupplying?.
causing new france issue resupplying.	What was causing New France to have no issues with resupplying?.
reason caused good supply new france difficult winter.	What other reason caused good supply of New France from a difficult winter?.
reason caused poor supply new france difficult summer.	What other reason caused poor supply of New France from a difficult summer?.
montcalm focusing offense new france.	Where was Montcalm focusing the offense for New France?.
led newcastle's fall power military advisor.	What led to Newcastle's fall from power as military advisor?.
abercrombie replace commander chief.	Who did Abercrombie replace as commander in chief?.
pitt's plan called attack.	Pitt's plan called for what attacks?.
many pitt's planned expedition successful.	How many of the Pitt's planned expeditions were successful?.
led newcastle's rise power military advisor.	What led to Newcastle's rise to power as military advisor?.
led newcastle's fall power political advisor.	What led to Newcastle's fall from power as political advisor?.
abercrombie replace commander chief.	Who didn't Abercrombie replace as commander in chief?.
abercrombie replace captain chief.	Who did Abercrombie replace as captain in chief?.
many pitt's planned expedition successful.	How many of the Pitt's planned expeditions weren't successful?.
many frenchman battle carillon.	How many Frenchman won Battle of Carillon?.
many troop defeated british battle carillon.	How many troops were defeated for British in BAttle of Carillon?.
success abercrombie gain defeat carillon.	What success did Abercrombie gain out of the defeat at Carillon?.
impact loss abercrombie.	What impact did this loss have on Abercrombie?.
many frenchman lost battle carillon.	How many Frenchmen lost Battle of Carillon?.
many englishman battle carillon.	How many Englishmen won Battle of Carillon?.
many troop victorious british battle carillon.	How many troops were victorious for British in BAttle of Carillon?.
success abercrombie gain win carillon.	What success did Abercrombie gain out of the win at Carillon?.
impact win abercrombie.	What impact did this win have on Abercrombie?.
1758 duc de choiseul's plan focused military effort.	In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for focused military efforts?.
successful french revised effort.	How successful was the French revised efforts?.
naval battle france lose 1759.	What naval battles did France lose in 1759?.
1785 duc de choiseul's plan focused military effort.	In 1785 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for focused military efforts?.
1758 duc de choiseul's plan unfocused military effort.	In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for unfocused military efforts?.
unsuccessful french revised effort.	How unsuccessful was the French revised efforts?.
successful english revised effort.	How successful was the English revised efforts?.
naval battle france lose 1795.	What naval battles did France lose in 1795?.
defeated montcalm quebec.	Who defeated Montcalm at Quebec?.
significance victory forth niagara british.	What was the significance of victory at Forth Niagara for British?.
battle outside quebec city british lose 1760.	What battle outside Quebec City did British lose in 1760?.
victory thwarted effort french relief ships..	What victory at thwarted efforts of French relief ships..
defeated montcalm quebec.	Who was defeated by Montcalm at Quebec?.
defeated montcalm montreal.	Who defeated Montcalm at Montreal?.
insignificance victory forth niagara british.	What was the insignificance of victory at Forth Niagara for British?.
battle outside quebec city british lose 1706.	What battle outside Quebec City did British lose in 1706?.
battle inside quebec city british lose 1760.	What battle inside Quebec City did British lose in 1760?.
sept 1760 negotiated capitulation montreal.	In Sept 1760 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal?.
request made british.	What were requests made to British?.
british general negotiated montreal.	What British General negotiated at Montreal?.
sept 1706 negotiated capitulation montreal.	In Sept 1706 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal?.
sept 1760 negotiated war montreal.	In Sept 1760 who negotiated a war from Montreal?.
request made british.	What were requests made from British?.
british general negotiated toronto.	What British General negotiated at Toronto?.
french general negotiated montreal.	What French General negotiated at Montreal?.
north american french indian war end.	When did the North American French and Indian War end?.
european portion seven year war complete.	When was the European portion of the Seven Years War complete?.
choice french surrendering land.	What choice did French have for surrendering land?.
france choose give continental land.	Why did France choose to give up continental lands?.
north american french indian war begin.	When did the North American French and Indian War begin?.
south american french indian war end.	When did the South American French and Indian War end?.
european portion six year war complete.	When was the European portion of the Six Years War complete?.
european portion seven year war incomplete.	When was the European portion of the Seven Years War incomplete?.
france choose give continental land.	Why did France choose to give up no continental lands?.
many french colonist gained british.	How many French colonists were gained by British?.
deportation acadian.	When was the deportation of Acadians?.
british resettle many acadian.	Where did British resettle many Acadians?.
although acadian went france destiantions, north american city many move.	Although some Acadians went to France and other destiantions, what North American city did many move to?.
many french colonist gained british.	How many French colonists weren't gained by British?.
many french colonist lost british.	How many French colonists were lost by British?.
deportation canadian.	When was the deportation of Canadians?.
british kill many acadian.	Where did British kill many Acadians?.
although acadian went france destiantions, north american city many move.	Although some Acadians went to France and other destiantions, what North American city did many not move to?.
issued royal proclamation 1763.	Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763?.
objective royal proclamation 1763.	What was the objective of Royal Proclamation of 1763?.
land reserved native.	What lands were reserved for natives?.
never issued royal proclamation 1763.	Who never issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763?.
issued royal proclamation 1736.	Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1736?.
objective royal proclamation 1736.	What was the objective of Royal Proclamation of 1736?.
land reserved native.	What lands weren't reserved for natives?.
land reserved french.	What lands were reserved for the French?.
loss mean france.	What did the loss mean to France?.
made ohio country vulnerable.	What made Ohio Country vulnerable?.
spanish takeover louisiana territory complete.	When was Spanish takeover of Louisiana Territory complete?.
native displaced british takeover florida.	What natives were displaced by British takeover in Florida?.
many spanish catholic move british takeover florida.	Where did many Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida?.
spanish catholic move british takeover florida.	Where did no Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida?.
made ohio country safe.	What made Ohio Country safe?.
spanish takeover louisiana territory incomplete.	When was Spanish takeover of Louisiana Territory incomplete?.
native displaced british takeover georgia.	What natives were displaced by British takeover in Georgia?.
win mean france.	What did the win mean to France?.
concept philosopher antiquity use study simple machine.	What concept did philosophers in antiquity use to study simple machines?.
belief maintaining motion required force.	What was the belief that maintaining motion required force?.
mathmatical insite.	Who had mathmatical insite?.
long take improve sir isaac newton's law motion.	How long did it take to improve on Sir Isaac Newton's laws of motion?.
develped theory relativity.	Who develped the theory of relativity?.
used concept antiquity study stationary moving object.	Who used the concept of antiquity in the study of stationary and moving objects?.
something considered non fundamental error belief force required maintain.	Something that is considered a non fundamental error is the belief that a force is required to maintain what?.
previous understanding motion force corrected.	Most of the previous understandings about motion and force were corrected by whom?.
sir galileo galilei corrected previous misunderstanding.	Sir Galileo Galilei corrected the previous misunderstandings about what?.
formulated law motion improved-on nearly three thousand year.	Who formulated the laws of motion that were not improved-on for nearly three thousand years?.
partical physic made describe sub-atomic force.	What has partical physics made to describe sub-atomic forces?.
exchanged particle predicted standard model.	What are the exchanged particles predicted by the standard Model?.
strongest main interaction.	What is the strongest main interaction?.
weakest main interaction.	What is the weakest main interaction?.
weak electromatic force expression.	What are weak and electromatic forces expressions of?.
decelerate particle close speed light.	What can decelerate particles close to the speed of light?.
particle physic created unique model describe.	Particle physics has created a Unique Model to describe what? .
unique model predicts exchanged particle fundamental mean.	The Unique Model predicts that exchanged particles are the fundamental means by what?.
many main interaction know.	How many main interactions are not know?.
provided philosophical discussion force.	Who provided a philosophical discussion of force?.
concept force integral part.	What was the concept of force an integral part of?.
many element aristotle believe terrestrial sphere made.	How many elements did Aristotle believe the terrestrial sphere to be made up of?.
aristotle believe natural place earth water element.	Where did Aristotle believe the natural place for earth and water elements?.
aristotle refer forced motion.	What did Aristotle refer to forced motion as?.
provided discussion concept time integral part aristotelian cosmology.	Who provided a discussion on the concept of time as an integral part of Aristotelian cosmology?.
galileo's view, terrestrial sphere contained many element.	In Galileo's view, the terrestrial sphere contained how many elements?.
aristotle believed object motion earth would stay way.	Aristotle believed that objects in motion on Earth would stay that way if what?.
proposed water displaced projectile's path carry projectile target.	Who proposed that water displaced through the projectile's path carries the projectile to its target?.
shortcoming aristotle's physic overcome.	When were the shortcomings of Aristotle's physics overcome?.
whose work corrected aristotle's physic seventeenth century.	Whose work  corrected Aristotle's physics in the seventeenth century?.
object forced motion contain according late medieval idea influence aristotle.	What did objects in forced motion contain according to the late Medieval idea that influence Aristotle?.
experimented rolling stone canonballs steep incline.	Who experimented by rolling stones and canonballs down a steep incline?.
force acted body retard velocity.	What force acted on bodies to retard their velocity?.
shortcoming aristotelian physic would corrected 16th century work.	The shortcomings of Aristotelian physics would not be corrected until the 16th century work of whom?.
influenced early medieval idea.	Who was influenced by early Medieval ideas?.
constructed experiment stone rock rolled incline.	Who constructed an experiment where stones and rocks were rolled down an incline?.
argued object retain velocity even acted force.	Who argued that objects retain their velocity even when acted on by a force?.
whose first law motion say unless acted upon forces, object would continue move constant velocity.	Whose First Law of Motion says that unless acted upon be forces, objects would continue to move at a constant velocity?.
insight galileo associated constant velocity.	What insight of Galileo was associated with constant velocity?.
proposed innate intertial natural state object.	Who proposed that innate intertial is the natural state of objects?.
law connects relative velocity inertia.	What law connects relative velocities with inertia?.
law physic galileo, reference objest motion rest.	What are the laws of physics of Galileo, in reference to objest in motion and rest?.
newton's second law motion state.	Newton's Second Law of Motion states what?.
second law contradicts belief.	The second law contradicts what belief?.
whose law made rest physically indistinguishable zero constant velocity.	Whose law made rest physically indistinguishable from zero constant velocity?.
law different every inertial frame reference.	What laws are different in every inertial frame of reference?.
change rest movement constant velocity.	What doesn't change from being at rest to movement at a constant velocity?.
path ball thrown moving vehicle take seen outside observer.	What path does a ball thrown up and down in a moving vehicle take when seen by an outside observer? .
sate thing inside moving vehicle seen person inside vehicle.	What sate are things inside of a moving vehicle as seen by a  person inside the vehicle?.
applies equally constant velocity motion rest..	What applies to equally to constant velocity motion as it does to rest..
law physic change rest travelling.	The laws of physics change from being at rest when travelling in a what?.
perspective car vehicle everything inside rest.	From the perspective of whom in the car is the vehicle and everything inside of it at rest?.
plenty experiment distinguish whether vehicle rest.	There are plenty of experiments that can distinguish whether it is the vehicle that s at rest or what?.
two considered physically distinguishable.	The two what are considered to be physically distinguishable?.
concept explains object continue constant motion.	What concept explains why objects continue in constant motion?.
make day length constant earth.	What makes day length constant on Earth?.
explained inertial reference frame equaled reference frame subject constant acceleration.	Who explained that inertial reference frames equaled reference frames subject to constant acceleration?.
astronaughts experience free-fall.	What do astronaughts experience while in free-fall?.
basis mentioned develpment general theory relativity.	What was the basis mentioned for the develpment of the general theory of relativity?.
concept inertia explain tendency people continue.	The concept of inertia can explain the tendency of people to continue in what?.
rotational inertia planet mar fix.	The rotational inertia of planet Mars is what fixes the what?.
explained reference frame subject constant deceleration.	Who explained that reference frames subject to constant deceleration?.
astronaut experience free-fall orbit around saturn.	What do astronauts experience when in free-fall orbit around Saturn?.
describes proportionality acceleration force mass.	What describes the proportionality of acceleration to force and mass?.
kind measurement define accelerlations.	What kind of measurements define accelerlations?.
equivalence mass space-time.	What has an equivalence between mass and space-time?.
missing theory quantum gravity.	What is missing a theory on quantum gravity?.
newton's second law, unit mass force relation microscales.	In Newton's second law, what are the units of mass and force in relation to microscales?.
newton's third law asserts direct proportionality acceleration.	Newton's Third Law asserts the direct proportionality of acceleration to what?.
newton's third law asserts inverse proportionality acceleration.	Newton's Third Law asserts the inverse proportionality of acceleration to what?.
deceleration described.	Deceleration can be described through what?.
specific relativity offer equivalence.	Specific relativity offers an equivalence between what?.
force presence differnet objects, law give symmetry.	When forces are from the presence of differnet objects, what law gives symmetry?.
law staes force interaction body.	What law staes that forces are interactions between bodies?.
kind force exist newton's third law.	What kind of force does not exist under Newton's third law?.
equality force two object exerting force.	What is the equality of forces between two objects exerting force on each other??.
newton's fifth law result applying symmetry.	Newton's Fifth Law is the result of applying symmetry to what?.
newton's fifth law mean force interaction.	Newton's Fifth Law means that only some forces are interactions between whom?.
second body exerts force f first body, happens second body.	When a second body exerts a force F on a first body, what happens to the second body?.
experience acceleration external force applied system.	What experiences acceleration when external force is applied to a system?.
kind system particle unbalanced iinternal force.	In what kind of system of particles are there no unbalanced iinternal forces?.
magnitude force divided external force added.	What is the magnitude of force divided by when external force is added?.
open system particles, internal.	In an open system of particles, there are no internal what?.
balance open system particle.	What are balance in an open system of particles?.
internal force act system, center mass experience.	If an internal force acts on the system, the center of mass will experience what?.
constituent object decelerate respect.	The constituent objects only decelerate with respect to what?.
pushing pulling perception provide describing force.	What does pushing and pulling perceptions provide for describing forces?.
used quantify intuitive undestanding force.	What is used to quantify the intuitive undestanding of forces?.
offer conceptual definition force.	What offers a conceptual definition of force?.
laboratory measurement force determined.	How are laboratory measurements of forces determined?.
laboratory measurement force fully inconsistent.	Laboratory measurements of forces are fully inconsistent with what?.
conceptual definition push pull offered.	The conceptual definition of pushes and pulls are offered by what?.
newtonian mechanism definition.	Newtonian mechanisms are the definition of what?.
example metaphysical concept.	What is an example of a metaphysical concept?.
force classified regard push pull strengt.	How are forces classified with regard to push and pull strengt?.
physical quantity direction.	What physical quantities do not have direction?.
avoid problem determining force involved object two source.	How do you avoid problems when determining forces involved on an object from two or more sources?.
know magnitude direction two force object, would call situation.	If you do not know both magnitude and direction of two forces on an object, what would you call that situation?.
determine acceleration rope two people pulling.	How do you determine the acceleration of a rope when two people are pulling it?.
act particular direction.	What acts in no particular direction?.
size depending weak push pull.	What has sizes depending on how weak the push or pull is?.
classified "vintage quantities".	What are classified as "vintage quantities"?.
follows set mathematical rule physical quantity.	What follows the same set of mathematical rules than physical quantities?.
condition force first measured historically.	In what conditions were forces first measured historically?.
force regard additive quantity.	What do forces have with regard to additive quantities?.
resultant force called two force act particle.	What is the resultant force called when two forces act on a particle?.
force acting extended body, need account motion effect.	When forces are acting on an extended body, what do you need to account for motion effects?.
geometric shape used equation determine net force.	What geometric shape is used in equations to determine net force?.
three force act point particle, happens.	When three forces act on a point particle, what happens?.
also called nut force.	What is also called the nut force?.
magnitude resultant varies similarity.	The magnitude of the resultant varies from the similarities of what?.
must specified order account effect motion head.	What must be specified in order to account for their effects on the motion of the head?.
whwn force right ngles broken.	Whwn forces are at right ngles to each other what can they be broken down to?.
force pointing horizontally northeast, many force split force.	If a force is pointing horizontally to the northeast, how many forces can you split the force into?.
get figure sum force vector addition.	What do you get when you figure the sum of forces with vector addition?.
independant component vector sum determined scalar addition individual vector.	What are the independant components of a vector sum that has been determined by scalar addition of individual vectors?.
orthogonal force three component two right angle.	What can orthogonal forces be when there are three components with two at right angles to each other?.
well subtracted, force also.	As well as being subtracted, forces can also what?.
vertical force pointing northeast split many force.	A vertical force pointing northeast can be split into how many forces?.
yield non original force.	What yields the non original force?.
orthogonal force vector four-dimensional.	Orthogonal force vectors can can four-dimensional with what?.
keep object moving pushed surface.	What can keep an object from moving when it is being pushed on a surface?.
generated surface object pushed.	What is generated between a surface and an object that is being pushed?.
static friction balance force movement object surface.	Static friction balances what force when there is no movement of an object on a surface?.
make static friction go responce contact characteristic object surface.	What makes static friction go up or down in responce to contact characteristics between an object and the surface it is on?.
pulling object frictional surface result.	Pulling on an object on a frictional surface can result in what?.
object move applied force opposed static friction.	When will an object move because the applied force is opposed by static friction?.
increase decrease response applied friction.	What increases or decreases in response to applied friction?.
increase decrease response static friction.	What increases or decreases in response to static friction?.
scale spring balance measure two force using static equilibrium.	What can scales and spring balances measure between two forces by using static equilibrium?.
force act object suspended spring scale addition gravity.	What force acts on an object suspended on a spring scale in addition to gravity?.
equal spring reaction force object suspended spring reaction scale.	What equals the spring reaction force on an object suspended on a spring reaction scale? .
object constant density proportional volume force define standard weights..	Objects of constant density are proportional to volume by what force to define standard weights?..
expounded three law motion.	Who expounded the Three Laws of Motion?.
static equilibrium three source way.	A static equilibrium between three sources is a way of doing what?.
complex device weighing scale used measuring.	Complex devices such as weighing scales are used when measuring what?.
object suspended horizontal spring scale experience force.	An object suspended on a horizontal spring scale experiences the force of what?.
quantitative force law discovered using.	All quantitative force laws were discovered using what? .
first described dynamic equilibrium.	Who first described dynamic equilibrium?.
motion constant velocity equal.	What does motion at a constant velocity equal?.
idea natural state object rest.	Who had the idea of a natural state for objects at rest?.
canonball dropped crow's nest ship land according aristotle.	Where will a canonball dropped from the crow's nest of a ship land according to Aristotle?.
canonball dropped crow's nest ship actually land.	Where does a canonball dropped from the crow's nest of a ship actually land?.
type equilibrium first described aristotle.	What type of equilibrium was first described by Aristotle?.
physic contradicted observation logic.	Which physics were not contradicted by observations and logic?.
universe would falling cannonball land front mast moving ship.	In what universe would a falling cannonball land in front of the mast of a moving ship?.
concluded motion constant velocity completely equivalent motion.	Who concluded that motion in a constant velocity was completely equivalent to motion?.
occurs traveling across surface constant velocity regard friction.	What occurs when traveling across a surface at a constant velocity with regard to friction?.
directly opposes force applied move object across surface.	What directly opposes the force applied to move an object across a surface?.
accounted cause net force cause constant velocity motion.	What has to accounted for that causes no net force being the cause of constant velocity motion?.
thought applied force caused movement object regardless non-zero velocity.	Who thought that applied force caused movement of an object regardless of non-zero velocity?.
equilibrium occurs fluctuating velocity motion.	What equilibrium occurs in fluctuating velocity motion?.
continues move zero velocity.	What continues to move with a zero velocity?.
started zero velocity.	What started with a zero velocity?.
much net force taken consideration.	There is much net force when what is taken into consideration?.
equation currently decribes physic force..	What equation currently decribes the physics of force..
equation desribed physic force current schrodinger equation.	What equation desribed the physics of force before the current Schrodinger equation?.
force derived field treated similarly.	How are the forces derived from fields treated similarly to?.
type measurement result schrodinger equation using operator instead newtonian variable.	What type of measurements result under Schrodinger equations when using operators instead of Newtonian variables?.
notion keep meaning netonian schrodinger physic equation.	What notion keeps it's meaning through both Netonian and Schrodinger physics equations?.
notion keep meaning quantum mechanic.	What notion does not keep its meaning in quantum mechanics?.
notion cause one deal classical variable instead operator.	What notion causes one to deal with classical variables instead of operators?.
described newtonian equation.	What is now described by the Newtonian equations?.
used described schrodinger equation.	What used to be described by the Schrodinger equation?.
intrisic angular variable called particle act upon one another.	What is the intrisic angular variable called when particles act upon one another?.
principle relating spin space variable.	What is the principle about relating spin and space variables?.
value seperating fermion boson depend.	What value does the seperating into fermions and bosons depend?.
apparant force two fermion attractive, spin function.	If the apparant force of two fermions is attractive, what is the spin function?.
apparant force two fermion repulsive, spin function.	If the apparant force of two fermions is repulsive, what is the spin function?.
identical particle split two different class depending formation.	Identical particles split into two different classes depending on the formation of what?.
three identical fermion symmetric spin, spatial variable must.	If three identical fermions have a symmetric spin, the spatial variables must be what?.
correlation occasionally positive.	When is the correlation occasionally positive?.
correlation occasionally negative.	When is the correlation occasionally negative?.
particle force acceleration explained gauge boson exchange.	How are the particle forces and accelerations explained as by gauge bosons exchange?.
redundant concept coming momentum conservation.	What is the redundant concept coming from momentum conservation?.
fundamental force quanton field theory.	What is more fundamental than force in quanton field theory?.
diagram used simplify particle interaction fundamental level.	What diagrams are used to simplify particle interactions on a fundamental level?.
matter particle shown kind line feynman diagram.	Matter particles are shown as what kind of lines in a Feynman diagram?.
indirectly derived symmetry space.	What can be indirectly derived from the symmetry of space?.
considered le fundamental concept force.	What is considered less fundamental than the concept of force?.
considered le accurately "fundamental interactions".	What are considered less accurately to be "fundamental interactions"?.
whose diagram matter particle represented curved line.	In whose diagram is each matter particle represented as a curved line?.
many interaction universal force based.	How many interactions are all of the universal forces based on?.
nuclear force act short distance.	What nuclear forces only act at short distances?.
force act electric charge.	What force acts between electric charges?.
gravitational force act.	What do gravitational forces act between?.
prohibits atom passing.	What prohibits atoms from passing through each other?.
force based three fundamental interaction.	All the forces in what are based on three fundamental interactions?.
force universe based many fundamental interaction.	Most of the forces in the universe are based on how many fundamental interactions?.
type force act long distance.	What type of forces act at very long distances?.
force responsible interaction atomic particle.	What forces are responsible for the interactions between atomic particles?.
formed universal theory gravitation.	Who formed the universal theory of gravitation?.
century quantum mechanic made.	In what century was quantum mechanics made? .
kind self-consistent model physicist trying make would create theory everything.	What kind of self-consistent models are physicists trying to make that would create a theory of everything?.
type physic model einstein fail make.	What type of physics model did Einstein fail to make?.
proceeded along line unification similar idea.	What proceeded along the lines of unification of similar ideas?.
unified force responsible atom falling surface earth.	Who unified the force responsible for atoms falling at the surface of the Earth?.
demonstrated electric magnetic force unified two consistent theory.	Who demonstrated that electric and magnetic forces were unified through two consistent theories?.
19th century, development quantum mechanic led.	In the 19th century, the development of quantum mechanics led to what?.
identified gravity force.	Who identified gravity as a force?.
came concept falling object fell speed regardless weight.	Who came up with the concept that falling objects fell at the same speed regardless of weight?.
fast object fall earth.	How fast do objects fall on Earth?.
measurment standard gravity earth taken.	Where was the measurment for the standard gravity on Earth taken?.
object's mass proportional surface earth.	What is an object's mass proportional to at the surface of the Earth?.
work galileo, identified universal force.	Until the work of Galileo, what was not identified as a universal force?.
newton instrumental describing characteristic falling.	Newton was instrumental in describing the characteristics of falling what?.
magnitude 8.81 meter per second squared.	What has a magnitude of about 8.81 meters per second squared?.
identified universal force work galileo.	What was identified as a universal force after the work of Galileo?.
might gravity effect observed differently according newton.	How might gravity effects be observed differently according to Newton?.
could attributed gravity acceleration around earth.	What could be attributed to gravity acceleration around the Earth?.
gravitational acceleration proportional.	What is gravitational acceleration proportional to?.
included along gravitational acceration, mass earth formula rotation earth.	What is included along with gravitational acceration, and mass of the Earth in a formula about rotation about the Earth?.
realized effect gravity might observed differently smaller distance.	Who realized that the effects of gravity might be observed differently at smaller distances?.
newton said acceleration earth around moon represented.	Newton said that the acceleration of the Earth around the Moon represented what?.
realized gravitational deceleration proportional mass.	Who realized that gravitational deceleration was proportional to mass?.
newton realized gravitational deceleration proportional.	Newton realized that gravitational deceleration was proportional to what?.
used figure relative strengh gravity.	What is used to figure the relative strengh of gravity?.
made first measure value newton universal gravitation constant.	Who made the first to measure value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?.
first measurement value newton universal gravitation constant.	When was the first measurement of the value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?.
figured law gravity universal.	Who figured out that his law of gravity had to be universal?.
used describe weakness gravity.	What is used to describe the weakness of gravity?.
whose value know newton's life.	Whose value was know in Newton's life?.
realized celestial body followed law motion.	Who realized that only some celestial bodies followed the same laws of motion?.
cavendish's law gravitation state.	Cavendish's Law of Gravitation states what?.
planet seemed buck newton's gravitational law.	What planet seemed to buck Newton's gravitational laws?.
planet astrophysisist predict explain problem mercury.	What planet did astrophysisist predict to explain the problems with Mercury?.
theory accounted mercury problem.	What theory accounted for the Mercury problem?.
came theory relativity.	Who came up with the theory of relativity?.
first showed newton's theory gravity correct another theory.	Who first showed that Newton's Theory of Gravity was not as correct as another theory?.
whose law explain orbit planet saturn.	Whose law did not explain the orbit of the planet Saturn?.
predicted existence many planet.	Who predicted the existence of many other planets?.
albert einstein formulated law.	Albert Einstein formulated what law?.
planet vulcan predicted explain planet saturn.	The planet Vulcan was predicted to explain the what with planet Saturn?.
theory best explains gravity.	What theory best explains gravity?.
space-time path seen curved line space.	What space-time path is seen as a curved line in space?.
derivative object's changing momentum called.	What is the derivative of an object's changing momentum called?.
sense must observing curvature space-time.	In what sense must you be observing the curvature of space-time?.
theory least best describes gravity.	What theory least best describes gravity?.
viewed force gr.	What is viewed as a force in GR?.
curved line path space-time seen line space.	The curved line path in space-time is seen as a what line in space?.
describes object moving freely.	What describes objects not moving freely?.
law named defines charge moving magnetic field.	What is the law named that defines a charge moving through a magnetic field?.
time rate change electric charge.	What is  the time rate of change of electric charge?.
magnetic electric force act charge.	What magnetic and electric force acts on a charge?.
whatare electrostatic magnetic force awritten sum.	Whatare the electrostatic and magnetic force awritten as the sum of?.
lorenzo's law describes.	Lorenzo's Law describes what?.
connection energy allows unified electromagnetic force act charge.	The connection between energy and what allows for a unified electromagnetic force that acts on a charge?.
force describes lorenzo's law.	What force describes Lorenzo's Law?.
law rule vector addition.	Which law is a rule of vector addition?.
first fully explained origin magnetic electric field.	Who first fully explained the origins of magnetic and electric fields?.
origin magnetic electric field occur.	When did the origins of magnetic and electric fields occur?.
many scalar equation formed set james maxwell.	How many scalar equations were formed into a set by James Maxwell?.
many vector equation heaviside gibbs reformilate maxwell's 20 scalar equtions.	How many vector equations did Heaviside and Gibbs reformilate Maxwell's 20 scalar equtions into?.
discovered magnetic electric could self-generate.	Who discovered that magnetic and electric could self-generate?.
origin would fully explained 1964.	The origin of what would not be fully explained until 1964?.
separated number earlier theory set 20 scalar equation.	Who separated a number of earlier theories into a set of 20 scalar equations?.
later formulated 3 vector equation.	What was later formulated into 3 vector equations?.
discovered electric magnetic field could "self-aware".	Who discovered that electric and magnetic fields could be "self-aware".
dificult reconcile photoelectric effect missing ultraviolet catastrophe.	What was dificult to reconcile the photoelectric effect and the missing ultraviolet catastrophe?.
used create new electromagnetic theory reconcile trouble electromagnetic theory used stand.	What was used to create a new electromagnetic theory to reconcile the troubles with electromagnetic theory as it used to stand?.
electromagnetic theory finally lead.	What did electromagnetic theory  finally lead to?.
wave-particles called mediate electromagnetic phenomenon.	What are the wave-particles called that mediate all electromagnetic phenomena?.
qed short.	What is QED short for?.
new theory developed using quantum particle.	A new theory of what was developed using quantum particles?.
theory led quantum electromagnetics.	What theory led to quantum electromagnetics?.
photon fundamental exchange photon.	Where are photons the fundamental exchange photon?.
quantum theory used develop new theory.	Quantum theory was used to develop a new theory of what?.
often misunderstood cause matter rigidity.	What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity?.
actually cause rigidity matter.	What actually causes rigidity in matter?.
needed pack electron densely together.	What is needed to pack electrons densely together?.
pauli exclusion priciple manifested macro world.	How is the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested in the macro world?.
since electron minions, cannot occupy.	Since electrons are minions, they cannot occupy the same what?.
electron loosely packed, enough.	When electrons are loosely packed, there is not enough what?.
take energy pack together.	What takes no energy to pack them together?.
packed together loosely enough lower energy.	When what are packed together loosely is there not enough lower energy?.
stong force act upon.	What does stong force act upon?.
seen hadron.	What can be seen between hadrons?.
force nucleon.	What is the force between nucleons?.
nuclear force transmitted.	How are nuclear forces transmitted?.
term lack obsevable free quark.	What is the term for the lack of obsevable free quarks?.
weak force act particle.	The weak force only acts on which particles?.
successful search showed elementary particle observable.	The successful searches for what showed that the elementary particles are not observable?.
residual seen front hadron.	The residual of what can be seen in front of hadrons?.
weak force act upon.	The weak force acts upon what?.
w z boson exchange create.	What does the W and Z boson exchange create?.
observable effect w z boson exchange.	What is the observable effect of W and Z boson exchange?.
effect beta decay.	What is the effect of beta decay?.
many time le strenght weak field compared strong.	How many times less is the strenght of the weak field compared to the strong?.
temperature weak electromagnetic force appear.	At what temperature do weak and electromagnetic forces appear the same?.
strong force due exchange.	The strong force is due to the exchange of what?.
alpha decay familiar effect force.	Alpha decay is the most familiar effect of what force?.
force weaker gravity short distance.	What force is weaker than gravity over short distances?.
electroweak theory developed.	What electroweak theory has not been developed?.
repulsive force close range atom interaction.	What is the repulsive force of close range atom interaction?.
occurs electron cloud overlap different atom.	What occurs when electron clouds overlap from different atoms?.
cause pauli repulsion.	What causes Pauli repulsion?.
force cause rigid strength structure.	What is the force that causes rigid strength in structures?.
force due attractive force interaction.	What force is due to attractive forces of interaction?.
repulsion follows atomic cloud overlap.	What repulsion follows when atomic clouds overlap?.
example abnormal force action.	What is an example of the abnormal force in action?.
abnormal force responsible structural integrity.	The abnormal force is responsible for the structural integrity of what?.
used model tension force.	What can be used to model tension forces?.
use let idea string switch direction.	What do you use to let idea strings switch direction?.
way idea string transmit tesion force.	In what way do idea strings transmit tesion forces?.
final effect adding idea string load.	What is the final effect of adding more and more idea strings to a load?.
increase tension force load.	What can increase the tension force on a load?.
force modeled using ideal friction string.	What forces can be modeled using ideal friction strings?.
force modeled using ideal mass string.	What forces can be modeled using ideal mass strings?.
ideal string transmit delayed force.	Ideal strings transmit what delayed forces?.
newton's mechanic affect.	What did Newton's mechanics affect?.
newton's mechanic affext.	What didn't Newton's mechanics affext?.
kind fluid pressure difference caused direction force gradient.	In what kind of fluid are pressure differences caused by direction of forces over gradients?.
may force one part object affect.	What may a force on one part of an object affect?.
matter actually newtonian mechanic address.	What does matter actually have that Newtonian mechanics doesn't address?.
extended structure.	What does not have extended structure?.
force act one part object act.	Forces that act on one part of an object do not act on what?.
extended fluids, similarity pressure result force directed.	In extended fluids, similarities in pressure result in forces being directed where?.
whose mechanic affected three dimensional object.	Whose mechanics affected three dimensional objects?.
cause strain structure.	What causes strain in structures?.
used calculate cross section area volume object.	What is used to calculate cross section area in the volume of an object?.
associated normal force.	What are associated with normal forces?.
includes pressure term calculating area volume.	What includes pressure terms when calculating area in volume?.
cause strain structure.	What does not cause strain in structures?.
associated abnormal force.	What is associated with abnormal forces?.
associated horizontal force.	What is associated with horizontal forces?.
another term on-diagonal element.	Another term for on-diagonal elements is what?.
force equivalent torque compared angular momentum.	What is the force equivalent of torque compared to angular momentum?.
would change rotational inertia body newton's first law motion.	What would change the rotational inertia of a body under Newton's First Law of Motion?.
calculate instant angular acceleration rigid body would use.	To calculate instant angular acceleration of a rigid body what would you use?.
inertia exists newton's fourth law motion.	What inertia exists because of Newton's Fourth Law of Motion?.
equation torque like regarding velocity.	What equation is torque like regarding velocity?.
rotational equivalent velocity.	What is the rotational equivalent of velocity?.
newton's law described rotational inertia equation.	Which of Newton's Laws described a rotational inertia equation?.
centripetal force go.	Where does centripetal force go?.
centripetal force act relation vector velocity.	How do centripetal forces act in relation to vectors of velocity?.
force change object direction travel.	What force changes an objects direction of travel?.
another word centripetal force.	What is another word for centripetal force?.
resposible speeding slowing object.	What is resposible for speeding up or slowing down an object?.
force change object speed.	What force changes an objects speed?.
centripetal force come.	Where does the centripetal force come from?.
path change direction object.	What path changes the direction of an object?.
balance force accelerates.	A balance force accelerates what?.
form potential energy change.	What is the only form potential energy can change into?.
form kinetic energy change.	What is the only form kinetic energy can change into?.
preserved closed system force acted upon.	What is preserved in a closed system of forces when acted upon?.
force two location related.	What is the force between two locations related to?.
force called rgarding potential field two location.	What is the force called rgarding a potential field between two locations?.
liberal force act closed system kind mechanical work.	A liberal force that acts on a closed system has what kind of mechanical work?.
net mechanical energy open system.	Net mechanical energy is what in an open system?.
considered artifact potential field.	What can not be considered an artifact of the potential field?.
flow water considered artifact.	A flow of water can not be considered an artifact of what?.
sometimes impossible model.	What is sometimes impossible to model?.
force due impossible model.	Why are some forces due to that are impossible to model?.
electrostatic gradiient potential create.	What do electrostatic gradiient potentials create?.
tension, compression, drag kind force.	Tension, compression, and drag are what kind of forces?.
always possible model force due.	It is always possible to model forces as being due to what?.
micro-physical consideration yield.	Micro-physical considerations yield what?.
friction caused gradient.	Friction is not caused by the gradients of what?.
conservative force include.	Conservative forces include what?.
treatment nonconservative conservative force described.	In what treatment are nonconservative and conservative forces described?.
change macroscopic closed system energy.	What changes macroscopic closed system energies?.
exchange heat associated.	What is the exchange of heat associated with?.
law thermodynamics associated closed system heat exchange.	What is the law of thermodynamics associated with closed system heat exchange?.
make energy change closed system.	What makes energy changes in a closed system?.
macroscopic open systems, non conservative force act.	In macroscopic open systems, non conservative forces act to do what?.
often associated transfer cold.	What are often associated with the transfer of cold?.
conservative force often associated transfer.	Conservative forces are often associated with the transfer of what?.
change macroscopic closed system.	What does not change macroscopic closed systems?.
metric term le used newton.	What is the metric term less used than the Newton?.
kilogram-force sometimes reffered.	What is the kilogram-force sometimes reffered to as?.
seldom used unit mass metric system.	What is a very seldom used unit of mass in the metric system?.
seldom used term unit force equal 1000 pound force.	What seldom used term of a unit of force equal to 1000 pound s of force?.
seldom used force unit equal one thousand newton.	What is the seldom used force unit equal to one thousand newtons?.
metric counterpart.	What does not have a metric counterpart?.
force exerted standard gravity one ton mass.	What is the force exerted by standard gravity on one ton of mass?.
force lead commonly used unit mass.	What force leads to a commonly used unit of mass?.
force part modern si system.	What force is part of the modern SI system?.
